### Research hypothesis

The agency problem and the motivation of management to hide bad news under information asymmetry are both motivated by managers to gain personal benefits. However, ESG ‘greenwashing' that hides bad news and discloses good news is to create a positive corporate image to gain stakeholder support and maintain corporate legitimacy (Lyon & Maxwell, 2011; Seele & Gatti, 2017). Once a company's ESG report greenwashing behaviour is exposed, the stock price falls. The main body of company ESG report greenwashing may be management or major shareholders. Therefore, ESG report greenwashing is a new research perspective to explain the risk of stock price crash. Based on ESG report greenwashing perspective, the analysis is carried out from three stages including managers' motivation to conceal ESG bad news, the mechanism and the process of exposure.

ESG report greenwashing is that management or major shareholders conceal negative non-financial information, and the motivation is for impression management to maintain corporate image or legitimacy. On one hand, ESG report greenwashing is based on the purpose of maintaining the legitimacy position of the company in order to gain the support of stakeholders, while management hiding negative financial information stems from typical agency problems, i.e. concern about position promotion, management compensation, potential dismissal, litigation risk, and reputation decline (Ball, 2009; Kothari et al. 2009). On the other hand, ESG report greenwashing is to create a positive corporate image (Lyon & Maxwell, 2011). Olatubosun and Nyazenga (2019) found that many companies have ESG symbolic greenwashing behaviours and impression management. Listed companies may strategically disclose voluntary information to achieve a particular purpose of the company or the managers themselves (Dai et al. 2019), and may selectively and incorrectly disclose ESG social responsibility information (Cho & Patten, 2007; Geerts, 2014; Lyon & Maxwell, 2011; McCrory & Langvardt, 2012), ESG disclosure ‘greenwashing'. Regardless of the ESG report greenwashing motivation, if market participants find that a company has an ESG report greenwashing behaviours, they will be bearish on the stock price of the greenwashing company.

The management of ESG report greenwashing company have the ability to hide negative ESG information. ESG report greenwashing is a new mechanism to influence the stock price crash risk. Previous literature has found that management used accrual management (Hutton et al. 2009), accounting conservatism (Kim & Zhang, 2016), comparability of financial statements (Kim et al. 2016), voluntary disclosures such as social responsibility disclosures (Kim et al. 2014) and other mechanisms to hide bad news. Impression management theory suggests that the management of ESG report greenwashing companies have ability to use the mechanism of voluntary disclosure to hide negative ESG information, increasing information asymmetry and leading to an increased risk of stock price crash. Greenwashing is a corporate legitimacy-seeking strategy used to symbolically communicate with environmental issues rather than substantively address them in action (Gacek, 2020). Companies with high ESG scores are not necessarily true charities (Choi & Hong, 2022). On one hand, the environmental, social and governance (ESG) data provided in corporate sustainability reports are often unaudited, making it difficult for investors to judge the quality of ESG information. In the same industry, companies with high reputation are more likely to greenwash their ESG (Ruiz-Blanco