sector', companies issuing foreign-funded shares listed overseas, financial companies and listed companies on the ‘Shenzhen 100 Index' to disclose reports on fulfilling social responsibilities, for other companies, the principle of encouragement is applied. Environmental protection authorities also require listed companies or key pollutant dischargers in heavily pollution industries to disclose environmental information. Most listed companies adopt the principle of voluntary disclosure, while some are mandatory disclosure. On 30 September 2018, the CSRC issued a revised Code of Governance for Listed Companies, which requires listed companies to increase disclosure of corporate governance information in accordance with relevant laws and regulations. On 10 November 2018, Asset Management Association of China officially released the ‘Research Report on ESG Evaluation System of Chinese Listed Companies' and ‘Green Investment Guidelines (Trial)' to promote institutional investors to make ESG investments, serve the green development and transformation of the real economy, and achieve sustainable economic development.

### Social responsibility information and stock price crash risk

The theory of the company's stock price crash risk holds that management has the motivation and ability to hide negative information due to information asymmetry and agency problems (Ball, 2009; Jin & Myers, 2006; Kim et al. 2016; Kothari et al. 2009), which ultimately triggers a stock price crash. Under information asymmetry, managers are prone to design accrual management (Hutton et al. 2009), accounting conservatism (Kim & Zhang, 2016), comparability of financial statements (Kim et al. 2016), and voluntary information disclosure such as social responsibility information disclosure (Kim et al. 2014) and other mechanisms to hide bad news, thereby increasing the risk of stock price crash.

Management takes advantage of voluntary disclosure of social responsibility information, may hide bad news or send signals to reduce information asymmetry, further affecting the risk of stock price crash. From the perspective of information asymmetry, the voluntary disclosure of CSR information can play a communication role, reduce information asymmetry and thus reduce the risk of stock price crash (Dai et al. 2019; Kim et al. 2014), that is the view of ‘communication effect'. From the perspective of agency, the management takes CSR report as an egoistic tool, trying to cover up bad information with vague descriptions to convey a good corporate image to investors (Barnea & Rubin, 2010), that is, the view of ‘disguise effect'.

China's social responsibility information disclosure system is a combination of mandatory disclosure and voluntary disclosure, and in this context, social responsibility information disclosure also reflects the above two effects. From the perspective of agency issues, Tian and Wang (2017) find the ‘disguise effect' of mandatory social responsibility information disclosure. From the perspective of information asymmetry and investor sentiment, Song et al. (2017) believe that the information effect (communication effect) of social responsibility information disclosure reduces the risk of stock price crash. From the perspective of shareholders and management, Quan and Xiao (2016) believe that social responsibility information disclosure is an opportunistic behaviour of management and increases the stock price crash risk.