634 G. LIU ET AL.

## 4.5. Robustness tests

### 4.5.1. Propensity Score Matching (PSM) method

Due to the self-selection bias of the sample, there are endogenous issues of ESG report greenwashing. On one hand, ESG report greenwashing is not a policy randomly assigned to listed companies, but a strategy that companies can choose on their own; on the other hand, whether companies implement ESG report greenwashing or not is influenced by internal and external factors. Since the number of companies in the greenwashing group in the subsample is 940, which is far more than the non-greenwashing group of 326, it is not suitable for PSM method, so this paper only performs PSM test on the whole sample, and we also use the greenwashing index of two institutions for regression test. According to Ruiz-Blanco et al. (2022), Velte (2021) and Delmas and Burbano (2011), greenwashing behaviour is related to company characteristics, earnings management, and market factors. Therefore, this paper has selected continuous variables Lev, Roa, Size, Sigma, Ret, ABACC, and DTURN for one-to-one nearest neighbour matching. The matched results are shown in Panel A in Table 9. The T-Tests are mostly insignificant after matching, and the bias is basically within 10%, indicating good matching results. The PSM regression results are shown in Table 9, and the greenwashing index calculated by both Reuters and MSCI agency ratings are significant with stock price crash risk at the 5% level, indicating that the basis regression test in this paper is robust.

Table 10. Robustness tests: Heckman two-stage method.

|  Panel A: Heckman first stage regression  |   |   |   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|   | (1) | (2) |   |
|  Variable | Whole sample | Subsample |   |
|  AQI | 0.0142*** | 0.0077** |   |
|   | (2.7002) | (2.0667) |   |
|  CVs | Y | Y |   |
|  _cons | -17.1259*** | -4.3088** |   |
|   | (-18.8498) | (-2.3636) |   |
|  Industry&Year | Y | Y |   |
|  N | 11179 | 1266 |   |
|  Panel B: Heckman second stage regression  |   |   |   |
|   | Whole sample |   | Subsample  |
|   | (1) | (2) | (3)  |
|  Variable | F.NCSKEW | F.DUVOL | F.NCSKEW  |
|  Greenwashing | 0.0973* | 0.0651* | 0.2500**  |
|   | (1.8785) | (1.7710) | (2.3341)  |
|  CVs | Y | Y | Y  |
|  _cons | -1.9808*** | -1.3734*** | -0.8340  |
|   | (-6.5894) | (-5.9749) | (-0.9663)  |
|  Inverse Mills ratio | 0.1658*** | 0.0474** | -0.0087  |
|   | (2.6109) | (2.4902) | (-0.0847)  |
|  Industry&Year | Y | Y | Y  |
|  N | 11179 | 11179 | 1266  |