that companies that voluntarily disclose CSR information are more inclined to use selective disclosure methods to greenwash ESG reports, and the concealment of negative news significantly increases the risk of stock price crash. The content and items of selective disclosure are reduced for companies under mandatory disclosure of CSR information, and the space for expression manipulation is limited, which makes the impact of ESG report greenwashing on crash risk no longer significant.

### Cross-sectional analysis of managerial motivation, ESG report greenwashing and stock price crash risk

To support our hypothesis that ESG report greenwashing increases the crash risk of firms, we examine the relationship between ESG report greenwashing and stock price crash risk under different internal and external governance scenarios. Existing studies suggesting that corporate governance inhibits ESG report greenwashing behaviour (Yu et al. 2020), while corporate governance reduces stock price crash risk by affecting the quality of corporate financial reporting (Andreou et al. 2016). Excluding the influence of internal and external corporate governance factors, we expect that managements reduce the incentives for ESG report greenwashing under good corporate governance.

In this paper, we consider both internal and external corporate governance aspects of the firm. Referring to Yu et al. (2020), we analyse the effect of internal governance on greenwashing in terms of both board size and institutional investor ownership, expecting that the managements inhibit the incentive to greenwash ESG reporting under good internal corporate governance. We divide the sample into high and low groups with median to test the regressions separately. And Panel A and B in Table 6 report the regression results. The results show that the correlation between greenwashing of ESG report and the stock price crash risk is not significant when the board size is larger and the shareholding of institutional investors is higher. This is consistent with the finding of Yu et al. (2020). Internal governance can play a governance role in ESG report greenwashing, and when the level of internal governance is high, managers have an incentive to discourage ESG report greenwashing, thus the positive effect on the risk of stock price crash is no longer significant.

In addition, different property rights may also affect the role of ESG reporting greenwashing on stock price crash risk. Compared with private companies, not only do state-owned companies receive more government support in finance and politics but managers of state-owned companies are less sensitive to performance (Jiang & Kim, 2015) and more enthusiastic about political pursuits. In contrast, private companies are a dominant equity structure, and major shareholders have greater motivation to greenwash ESG reports to obtain higher economic benefits. Therefore, this paper predicts that in the sample of private companies, ESG reporting greenwashing is significantly positively correlated with stock price crash risk, but not correlated in the sample of state-owned companies. Panel C examines the heterogeneity of the nature of property rights. The results are consistent with the hypothesis in this paper, and the regression coefficients of the ESG greenwashing index of private companies listed in (2) and (4) in Panel C are 0.1663 and 0.1086, both of which are significant at the 5% and 10% levels, respectively. The regression