In 2018, the China Securities Regulatory Commission required listed companies to fully disclose ESG information on the basis of social responsibility reports, and the existing literature began to study the relationship between ESG information disclosure and stock price crash risk. ESG explicitly includes governance, while CSR indirectly includes governance issues related to environmental and social considerations. Therefore, ESG tends to be a broader term than CSR (Gillan et al. 2021). Feng et al. (2022) verify the communication effect of ESG information from the perspective of shareholders and find it reduce the risk of stock price crash. However, Murata and Hamori (2021) find that the ESG disclosure of American companies is not associated with stock price crash risk, while in Europe and Japan, ESG disclosure reduce the risk of stock price crash.

There are two reasons for the inconsistency of the existing research conclusions: first, there is an endogenous problem. There are measurement errors in social responsibility information. The social responsibility report scoring index of Runling Global Rating Agency has qualitative and quantitative indicators, the standards of qualitative and quantitative indicators are inconsistent, so it is difficult to accurately measure the social responsibility information with the total score calculated comprehensively. Moreover, it is not audited and its authenticity and reliability need to be tested. Second, the existing researches usually study stock price crash risk from a single dimension, either the disclosure of ESG report or the actual performance (rating) of ESG, but ESG report disclosure is not consistent with ESG actual performance (rating) (Christensen et al. 2022). Companies disclosing false ESG information to cover up relatively poor ESG performance are considered to be greenwashing (Yu et al. 2020). Therefore, the key to resolve the controversy of existing research is to study the impact of social responsibility information on the risk of stock price crash from the two different dimensions: ESG disclosure and ESG rating.

### CSR/ESG report greenwashing

### Definition of greenwashing

Greenwashing is defined differently in different subject disciplines. For example, in the field of marketing, greenwashing is considered to be the behaviour of companies that mislead consumers in terms of environmental practices, environmental benefits of products or services (Delmas & Burbano, 2011). In the field of financial, greenwashing is regarded as an issuer who fraudulently made an environmental commitment at the time of issuance, but actually did not use the raised funds for sustainable development projects (Baldi & Pandimiglio, 2022). In the field of accounting, there are two main types of greenwashing: selective disclosure and expressive manipulation. Selective disclosure refers to the disclosure of information that is beneficial to the company in order to maintain a positive image of the company (Lyon & Maxwell, 2011). Expressive manipulation refers to the manipulation of understandable information by companies to influence the views of information recipients on companies (Brennan et al. 2009). Such companies often show the behaviour of ‘more words and less actions' with more symbolic disclosures but less substantive actions (Walker & Wan, 2012). Cao et al. (2022) defined greenwashing as selective disclosure and descriptive manipulation based on previous studies.