information opacity and ultimately leads to a stock price crash (Xu et al. 2021). Based on the above analysis, we propose the following hypothesis:

#### H3:

Compared to companies under mandatory disclosure of social responsibility information, ESG report greenwashing have a more significant positive impact on stock price crash risk in voluntary disclosure companies.

## Research design

### Sample and data

We use a sample of Chinese A-share listed companies from 2014 to 2021. We select this time interval because Chinese Academy of Sciences issued the Guidelines for the Preparation of CSR Reports of Chinese Companies in January 2014. There is a total of 25,852 firm-years data from 2014 to 2021, then we exclude the 2197 ST, ST* and PT samples, 762 financial service samples, 4695 samples with missing control variables, 6138 ESG disclosure and ESG performance data for which one is available and the other is missing samples and 881 samples that were required to make mandatory ESG reporting disclosure but for which both ESG disclosure and performance data were missing, to ensure as much as possible that companies with missing disclosure and performance data did not issue ESG reports. Finally, we obtain 11,179 firm-year observations as our research object. After the above processing, the samples in this paper can be divided into two categories, one is 1266 samples with both ESG disclosure and performance data. In the other category, there were 9,913 samples with neither.

The ESG performance and ESG information data in this paper are, respectively, from the Thomson Reuters Eikon datastream and Bloomberg databases, other data are from the CSMAR database. All continuous variables are winsorised at the 1% and 99% levels to eliminate the effect of outliers.

### Variable measurement and model setting

The dependent variable Crash is the stock price crash risk, which are the one-period lagged negative return skewness coefficient (F.NCSKEW), and the one-period lagged return up/down volatility ratio (F.DUVOL), respectively. Following the research methods of Hutton et al. (2009) and Kim et al. (2014) to measure the stock price crash risk at the firm level, the specific indicators are the negative return skewness coefficient (NCSKEW) and the upward and downward volatility ratio of returns (DUVOL), respectively.

The independent variable is Greenwashing. We define ESG report greenwashing as the act of ESG performance not reaching the level stated in the ESG report, i.e. the act of using ESG report to whitewash ESG performance. Following Yu et al. (2020) and Zhang (2022), we use the difference between the industry-standardised ESG information disclosure score and the standardised ESG performance score to determine whether and to what extent a company greenwashes ESG information. The specific calculation formula is as follows: $$Greenwashing_{i} = \frac{D_{i} - \overline{D}}{\sigma_{D}} - \frac{P_{i} - \overline{P}}{\sigma_{P}}$$