CHINA JOURNAL OF ACCOUNTING STUDIES

2024, VOL. 12, NO. 3, 615-639

https://doi.org/10.1080/21697213.2024.2303070

Routledge Taylor &amp; Francis Group

OPEN ACCESS

Check for updates

# Does ESG report greenwashing increase stock price crash risk?

Guangrui Liu $^{a}$, Hao Qian $^{a}$, Yong Shi $^{b}$, Yu Zhang $^{b}$ and Fengyuan Wu $^{b}$

$^{a}$School of Business, Shaoxing University, Shaoxing, China; $^{b}$School of Accounting, Zhongnan University of Economics and Law, Wuhan, China

## ABSTRACT

From the perspective of non-financial information greenwashing, this paper investigates the impact mechanism of environmental, social and governance (ESG) report greenwashing on stock price crash risk. The results indicate that ESG report greenwashing increases the stock price crash risk. In high earnings management companies, ESG report greenwashing is positively correlated with stock price crash risk, and ESG report greenwashing and earnings management are complementary. Further analysis shows that better internal and external corporate governance can suppress the impact of ESG greenwashing. In addition, in the voluntary disclosure and private enterprise samples, ESG report greenwashing has a greater impact on the stock price crash risk. Mechanism analysis found that the greenwashing of ESG reports intensified the information asymmetry, which increased the stock price crash risk. Overall, our evidence is consistent with the masking effect of socially responsible information, and that ESG greenwashing increases the stock price crash risk.

## KEYWORDS

Environmental, social and governance; environmental, social and governance report; social responsibility information; greenwashing; stock price crash risk

# 1. Introduction

Climate change risks and COVID-19 impact the sustainable development of the global economy. As the social responsibility information for evaluating the sustainable development of companies, the environmental, social and governance (ESG) report plays an increasingly important role in the capital market. For example, on 18 September 2015, the US Environmental Protection Agency found that Volkswagen installed special software on the engine controller to avoid the official inspection of exhaust emissions. After the exposure of the behaviour that the emission of exhaust gas went from 10 to 40 times beyond the standard to greenwashing to high environmental protection standards, its share price fell by 40% in 1 month. After Chinese 'dual carbon' goal was put forward, the asset management scale of domestic ESG public funds increased by more than 100 billion, and the number of A-share listed companies that disclosed CSR/ESG reports in 2021 has

CONTACT Yong Shi shiyong1027@126.com School of Accounting, Zhongnan University of Economics and Law, 182# Nanhu Avenue, Wuhan, China

Paper accepted by Xi Wu.

$^{1}$https://baike.baidu.com/item/%E5%A4%A7%E4%BC%97%E6%B1%BD%E8%BD%A6%E5%B0%BE%E6%B0%94%E9%80%A0%E5%81%87%E4%BA%8B%E4%BB%B6/18682048

© 2024 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor &amp; Francis Group.

This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial License (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/), which permits unrestricted non-commercial use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. The terms on which this article has been published allow the posting of the Accepted Manuscript in a repository by the author(s) or with their consent.