### Heckman two-stage method

In addition to the self-selection problem, this study also suffers from the endogenous issue of sample selection bias. In this paper, the sample was selected by excluding those samples for which the ESG greenwashing index could not be calculated due to missing data, which resulted in biased estimation results. To deal with the effect of sample selection bias, we implement the Heckman two-stage method, and construct the following model: *P**r*(*G**r**e**e**n**w**a**s**h**i**n**g*_*d**u**m**m**y*_{*i*, *t*}=1)=*ϕ*(*γ**Z*_{*i*, *t*}) = *β*_{0} + *β*_{1}*A**Q**I*_{*i*, *t*} + *β*_{*i*}∑*C**o**n**t**r**o**l**s*_{*i*, *t*} + *ε*_{*i*, *t*} *C**r**a**s**h*_{*i*, *t* + 1} = *β*_{0} + *β*_{1}*G**r**e**e**n**w**a**s**h**i**n**g*_{*i*, *t*} + *p**o**λ*(*γ**Z*_{*i*, *t*}) + *β*_{*i*}∑*C**o**n**t**r**o**l**s*_{*i*, *t*} + *ε*_{*i*, *t*} To predict whether a firm has implemented greenwashing, we introduce an exogenous variable that may affect the firm's decision to make a greenwashing strategy in model (3): the air quality index (AQI) of the prefecture-level city where the firm is located. Air quality represents to a certain extent the pollution level of a city, and if the city where the firm is located is more polluted it may affect the firm's motivation to greenwashing, but it will not directly affect the firm's stock price collapse risk. The air quality index data is sourced from CSMAR, and a larger air quality index indicates worse air quality. The regression results are reported in Panel A in Table 10, which show that the correlation coefficient of AQI is significantly positive, indicating that the worse the true ESG performance of firms in cities with poor air quality, the more inclined they are to greenwashing.

Panel B reports the regression results for model (4), the second stage. We find that the coefficient of Inverse Mills ratio in the whole sample is significantly positive, indicating that selection bias may indeed exist in the whole sample. After controlling for selection bias, the coefficient of Greenwashing is still significantly positive, and the conclusion is the same as the basis regression.

### Other robustness tests

This paper also uses the following three methods to test robustness, and the results remain unchanged. This paper excludes the cross-listed ‘A+H' and ‘A+B' stocks, and conducts benchmark regression tests on the whole sample and subsamples, respectively.

Rating opinions of different rating agencies may be divergent (Christensen et al. 2022), and the conclusions drawn from data from only one rating agency are not convincing. We also recalculate the greenwashing index using ESG performance data from MSCI rating agencies. We substitute the independent variables with the above two measures and test again, the results are reported in Table 10, which show that our core hypothesis still valid even after replacing the greenwashing measures.

## Conclusions and limitations

Based on the perspective of non-financial information greenwashing, this paper studies the impact of ESG report greenwashing on the stock price crash risk. The findings reveal that the behaviour of ESG report greenwashing increases the stock price crash risk, and this effect is more obvious in companies that voluntarily disclose social responsibility information. This paper finds that ESG report greenwashing has a greater impact on stock