### Differences between social responsibility information greenwashing and ESG greenwashing

Under the background of implementing the ‘double carbon' target policy, stakeholders such as government, institutional investors and financial institutions are increasingly concerned about the risks and opportunities brought by the ESG practice of companies. Institutional investors and financial institutions use ESG reports disclosed by listed companies to make investment and loan decisions. On the basis of CSR report disclosure, listed companies gradually transition to ESG report disclosure to meet the needs of institutional investors, financial institutions and other stakeholders. ESG reports contain more information about governance than CSR reports, which is related to the business objectives of companies (Gillan et al. 2021). At the same time, ESG reports disclose more quantitative non-financial data information, while most of the information disclosed in CSR reports is narrative and non-quantitative information. Therefore, ESG report greenwashing is different from social responsibility information greenwashing. Yu et al. (2020) defined greenwashing company as a company that disclosed a large amount of ESG data, but the ESG performance was poor. This paper refers to greenwashing's definition of Yu et al. (2020), and defines the ESG report greenwashing as that companies cover up relatively poor ESG performance by disclosing false ESG information.

### The motivation and consequences of CSR or ESG report greenwashing

The existing research on the motivation of CSR greenwashing information mainly has two views: legitimacy and impression management. Based on legitimacy view, companies seek to obtain or maintain legitimacy by disproportionately disclosing beneficial or relatively benign performance indicators to mask their less impressive overall performance (Marquis et al. 2016). As Reber et al. (2022) argues that companies strive to achieve ESG performance and communicate their efforts to demonstrate that they comply with sustainability-related norms, thereby obtaining and maintaining a social business licence. Based on impression management view, in order to leave a ‘good' impression on external stakeholders such as investors, companies selectively disclose positive information about social or environmental behaviour (Marquis et al. 2016). Greenwashing is a strategy for companies to pursue legitimacy, using impression management to communicate symbolically, rather than addressing these issues substantively in action (Gacek, 2020). Therefore, the core of both views is impression management.

### The influence of CSR or ESG report greenwashing on a company's investment, performance and share price

If companies disclose unreliable environmental, social, and governance information, greenwashing can become an obstacle to ESG investment decisions (Yu et al. 2020). The impact of greenwashing on the company's stakeholders will eventually lead to a decline in financial performance, which is not conducive to investment (Pizzetti et al. 2021). However, there is little literature to study the impact of ESG report greenwashing on the risk of stock price crash.