significant in private companies. ESG report greenwashing and earnings management complement each other to increase the risk of stock price crash. Among companies that voluntarily disclose social responsibility information, ESG report greenwashing significantly increases the risk of stock price crash. The mediation mechanism test finds that information asymmetry is the mediating variable in the ESG report greenwashing affecting the risk of stock price crash.

The theoretical contribution of this paper lies in three aspects: First, this paper finds that ESG report greenwashing is a new stock price crash risk mechanism, which expands the stock price crash risk theory from the perspective of legitimacy. Stock price crash risk theory holds that management's motivation to hide negative information is based on career and compensation concerns (Ball, 2009; Jin & Myers, 2006), but the motivation of the ESG report greenwashing is to attract green investors to invest or maintain the legitimacy of companies (Lyon & Maxwell, 2011; Seele & Gatti, 2017). We supplement the theoretical motivation of stock price crash risk from the perspective of ESG report greenwashing. Furthermore, previous literature has found that management uses accruals management (Hutton et al. 2009), accounting conservatism (Kim & Zhang, 2016), comparability of financial statements (Kim et al. 2016), voluntary disclosure of social responsibility information (Kim et al. 2014) and other mechanisms to hide bad news. This paper finds that ESG report greenwashing is a new means of hiding bad news. Second, the literature on corporate social responsibility information and stock price crash risk is enriched from the perspective of ESG report greenwashing. Although many literatures have discussed the relationship between CSR/ESG disclosure and stock price collapse (Feng et al. 2022; Kim et al. 2014; Quan & Xiao, 2016; Song et al. 2017; Tian & Wang, 2017), but they simply take the quality of information disclosure as the research object and ignore the greenwashing behaviour in disclosure. This paper focuses on the ‘inconsistency between words and deeds' in ESG. Third, the conclusion of this paper has important practical significance. Our findings provide external investors with a way to judge whether a company is greenwashing and empirical evidence on the stock price effects of ESG reporting greenwashing, which is helpful for external investors to make stock investment decisions. This study also provides empirical evidence that ESG report greenwashing increases the stock price crash risk for government departments, which has an important reference for the formulation of ESG information disclosure system and supervision work, and helps to maintain the stability of the capital market.

## Institutional background, literature review and research hypothesis

### Institutional background

At present, China has not introduced a special ESG report disclosure system, and the relevant disclosure requirements are mainly reflected in social responsibility reports. In September 2006, Shenzhen Stock Exchange took the lead in formulating and issuing the Guidelines on Social Responsibility of Listed Companies. In May 2008, the Shanghai Stock Exchange issued the Notice on Strengthening the Social Responsibility of Listed Companies. On 31 December of the same year, it issued the Notice on Doing a Good Job in the 2008 Annual Report of Listed Companies, requiring sample companies listed on the Shanghai Stock Exchange in the ‘Shanghai Stock Exchange corporate governance