et al. 2022). This phenomenon makes it more difficult for investors to assess the quality of ESG social responsibility disclosures. The quality of a company's ESG disclosure makes it difficult to communicate company-specific risks to outside investors. On the other hand, there is no uniform disclosure regulation for ESG reports, and the disclosure standards vary from company to company, which facilitates management to hide poor ESG reports and leads to an increased information asymmetry between insiders (informed traders) and external investors (uninformed traders) of ESG report greenwashing companies, resulting in an increased risk of stock price crash.

The exposure of ESG report greenwashing behaviours leads to increased risk of stock price crash. Unlike greenwashing of a company's products or services, the purpose of ESG report greenwashing is to preserve corporate image and legitimacy (Lyon & Maxwell, 2011; Seele & Gatti, 2017). Greenwashing of a company's products or services is easily exposed by consumers, the media and regulators. ESG report greenwashing have a greater invisibility due to information asymmetry. Compared with consumers, media and regulators, capital market participants always pay attention to the ESG behaviour of listed companies, they can identify false ESG reports before the negative information exposure. Previous literature suggests that management hoards negative bad news and when the accumulated bad news eventually exceeds a critical threshold, managers immediately release all the bad news, leading to a stock price crash (Jin & Myers, 2006). In fact, it is rare for listed companies to automatically release bad news, and most companies passively expose bad news because of CSRC penalties or revelations by capital market participants such as investors. Capital market participants can analyse the inconsistency between ESG disclosure and actual ESG performance of a company, and expose the ESG report greenwashing behaviour of a company. If investors know that a company has ESG report greenwashing behaviour, they will underestimate the stock price of that company. Based on the above reasons, our first hypothesis is as follows: H1:All else being equal, ESG report greenwashing increases the stock price crash risk for greenwashing companies.

Next, we examine whether ESG report greenwashing can be used as a supplement or substitute for earnings management in terms of its impact on stock price crash risk. It is well documented that earnings management is a mechanism for managers to hide bad news (Hutton et al. 2009), and ESG reports greenwashing is a new mechanism for managers to hide bad news that may complement or replace earnings management to increase the stock crash risk. The ESG reports greenwashing may be complementary to earnings management. On the one hand, when the company's earnings do not meet the management's expectations, the management applies impression management in the management's performance analysis and discussion report to mitigate the negative impact in this regard (Aerts & Cheng, 2011; Zhang & Aerts, 2015). If earnings management does not improve corporate impression management to the satisfaction of managers, managers may further supplement it by greenwashing ESG report, thus adding to the pile of bad news. On the other hand, companies selectively disclose social responsibility reports to cover up some misconduct (Hemingway & Maclagan, 2004). For example, management may choose to greenwash in order to cover up earnings management (Gonçalves et al. 2021),