reached 1,400. Previous researches have studied the relationship between social responsibility information and stock price crash risk from the perspective of information asymmetry and agency theory. From the perspective of information asymmetry and shareholder theory, social responsibility information disclosure has a communication effect and reduces the risk of stock price crash (Dai et al. 2019; Kim et al. 2014), and ESG rating can reduce stock price crash risk (Feng et al. 2022). From the perspective of agency theory, social responsibility information disclosure has a disguising effect and increases the risk of stock price crash (Barnea & Rubin, 2010; Quan & Xiao, 2016; Tian & Wang, 2017). However, existing studies only measure social responsibility information disclosure or ESG information from a single dimension, which is difficult to observe the specific motivation of management to disclose social responsibility information. What's more, corporate ESG disclosure information is different from institutional ESG rating information. There are few literatures integrating corporate ESG disclosure information and institutional ESG rating information to study the relationship between ESG information and stock price crash risk from the perspective of greenwashing.

Greenwashing is an attempt by enterprises to cover up relatively poor ESG performance by disclosing false ESG information (Yu et al. 2020), mainly in order to gain legitimacy benefits (Seele & Gatti, 2017). This is different from the motivation for management to hoard bad news from the agency perspective, such as compensation contract, professional concern and empire establishment (Ball, 2009; Kothari et al. 2009). Therefore, it is of great theoretical value to research the relationship between ESG report greenwashing and stock price crash risk. On the one hand, most of the ESG reports disclosed by listed companies are non-quantitative and without audit assurance, which makes it easy for companies to manage or manipulate or greenwash the disclosure of ESG reports, thereby covering up bad information to convey a good corporate image to investors (Barnea & Rubin, 2010; Yu et al. 2020). This ESG report greenwashing behaviour may be a new mechanism for managers to hide bad news, which needs to be empirically test. On the other hand, the share price of companies fell after the exposure of greenwashing behaviour (Wang et al. 2015). Different from their research, selective disclosure, exaggeration of real performance and other greenwashing behaviours in ESG report were not directly exposed (Yu et al. 2020). The media, investors and analysts can judge the company's greenwashing behaviour by comparing the differences between the ESG disclosure quality and the ESG performance rating results to expose these negative information, and then the risk of a company's stock price crash increased (Jin & Myers, 2006).

The purpose of this paper is to empirically test the impact of ESG report greenwashing on the risk of stock price crash, and provide empirical evidence and decision-making basis for institutional investors, financial institutions and other stakeholders. This paper takes Chinese listed companies from 2014 to 2021 as a research sample, draws on the measurement method of ESG report greenwashing by Yu et al. (2020) which uses the difference between ESG report disclosure score and ESG actual performance score to measure ESG report greenwashing, and uses PSM method, Heckman and other methods to study the impact of ESG report greenwashing on stock price crash risk. We find that ESG report greenwashing behaviour significantly increases stock price crash risk and it is more