CHINA JOURNAL OF ACCOUNTING STUDIES
(1)
629

Table 5. Disclosure system, ESG report greenwashing and stock rice crash risk.

|  Variable | (1) | (2) | (3) | (4)  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|   |  F.NCSKEW |   | F.DUVOL  |   |
|   |  Mandatory disclosure | Voluntary disclosure | Mandatory disclosure | Voluntary disclosure  |
|  Greenwashing | 0.0344 | 0.0863** | 0.0120 | 0.0608**  |
|   |  (0.9013) | (2.0122) | (0.4466) | (2.0638)  |
|  CVs | Y | Y | Y | Y  |
|  _cons | -2.8931*** | -1.4536*** | -2.2678*** | -0.5726**  |
|   |  (-3.4527) | (-3.6682) | (-4.0478) | (-2.3777)  |
|  Industry&Year | Y | Y | Y | Y  |
|  Adj_R² | 0.1453 | 0.1273 | 0.1370 | 0.0997  |
|  N | 692 | 10487 | 692 | 10487  |
|  Chow test |  | F=1.72 |  | F=1.98  |
|  P-Value |  | 0.0268 |  | 0.0067  |

To test whether management can use ESG report greenwashing to complement or substitute earnings management, this paper analyzes the regression coefficient of the interaction term to determine whether the two are complementary or substitutive, referring to the practice of Chen (2015). If ESG report greenwashing complements (substitutes) earnings management to increase stock price crash risk, then the interaction term coefficient between ESG report greenwashing and earnings management should be significantly positive (negative).

Table 4 shows the test results of the basic regression of H2. We choose the modified Jones model (ABACC) and DD model to measure the accrued profit earnings management. Columns (1) and (4) show the regression results of earnings management and stock price crash, which are basically consistent with previous results. The higher the earnings management, the higher the stock price crash risk. Columns (2) and (5) control for earnings management, excluding the impact of earnings management factors, and there is a significant positive correlation between ESG report greenwashing and stock price crash risk. Interaction terms (GR_ABACC and GR_DD) are further added to columns (3) and (6), and the coefficient of interaction terms is significantly positive, indicating that there is a complementary effect between ESG report greenwashing and earnings management. The regression results verify hypothesis 2a, which indicates that companies engaged in earnings management will also increase the demand for ESG report greenwashing to strengthen the purpose and effect of earnings management. Earnings management is to hide bad news of financial information, while ESG reporting is to hide bad news of non-financial information. When the sum of the bad news hidden by both exceeds a critical value, it will trigger a stock price crash.

Table 5 shows the test results of the basic regression of hypothesis 3. We have defined the dumb variable disclosure system. If the company is applicable to the mandatory disclosure system, then assign the value to 0, otherwise assign the value to 1, and then group for regression. Table 5 reports the results of the basic regression test. Column (2) and (4) are the regression results of the voluntary disclosure sample, and the correlation coefficients of independent variables are significantly positive at the level of 5%, but not significant in the mandatory disclosure sample. The regression results verify H3, indicating