price crash risk in companies with high levels of earnings management. The relationship of earnings management and ESG report greenwashing is complementary. The cross-sectional analysis shows that effective internal governance and stringent environmental regulation will inhibit the motivation of management's ESG report greenwashing, while in the case of low media attention, the management's motivation of ESG report greenwashing is greater. Among private companies, ESG report greenwashing has a more significant impact on stock price crash risk. Mechanism analysis found that ESG report greenwashing intensified the information asymmetry between insiders and external investors, which increased the stock price crash risk.

This study also has theoretical and practical implications. On one hand, this paper finds a new mechanism of stock price crash risk from the perspective of non-financial information greenwashing, which is market participants revealing the bad ESG information hidden by the management. This finding expands and integrates the ESG report greenwashing theory and stock crash risk theory, enriches the literature on the relationship between social responsibility information disclosure and stock price crash risk. The original research on social responsibility disclosure and stock crash risk only measures social responsibility disclosure from a single dimension, such as Kim et al. (2014) using social responsibility rating data from MSCI ESG database. In contrast, this paper measures social responsibility information (ESG information) from two dimensions, ESG disclosure and ESG performance, which is a more accurate measurement and can avoid the measurement error issue to some extent. On the other hand, the results of this study also provide empirical evidence on the relationship between ESG report greenwashing and stock price crash risk for emerging market investors and regulatory authorities. It provides a reliable decision-making reference for the high-quality development of Chinese listed companies.

There are two main limitations of this paper: First, this paper uses the method of Yu et al. (2020) to measure the degree of greenwashing of ESG reports, but this measure may be subject to error. The reason for adopting this approach is that all ESG disclosure and rating data can be obtained from the database, and the disadvantage of subjectivity of textual analysis can be overcome. We also use the greenwashing index calculated by text analysis for robustness testing, but there may still be some errors. Second, due to the missing data of institutional ratings of some companies, some samples cannot be calculated for the greenwashing index, and this paper excludes these missing value samples and does robustness tests, which may have some impact on the generalisation of the conclusions. Therefore, it is difficult to accurately measure the greenwashing of ESG reports, and there is still much room for exploration, so subsequent studies can start from this and develop more accurate measurement methods.

## Disclosure statement

No potential conflict of interest was reported by the author(s).