further exacerbating the risk of stock price crash. Therefore, companies with high earnings management may also greenwash ESG report. The combination of the two makes enterprises face more severe risk of stock price collapse.

However, if management have a low-risk appetite, they will choose to greenwash ESG report. Because the legitimacy risk of ESG report greenwashing is less than earnings management. ESG report greenwashing plays an alternative role in influencing stock price crash risk. For example, companies choosing earnings management have a higher risk of litigation (DuCharme et al. 2004; Hsu et al. 2022), but bear a lower risk for social responsibility information that has not been normatively audited. Secondly, earnings management will only bring short-term benefits, which will be reversed in the subsequent period (Hsu et al. 2022), in contrast, corporate social responsibility is more of a long-term value (Dai et al. 2019), which leads management to be more inclined to disclose or even greenwash ESG reports. Finally, with the continuous improvement of accounting standards and the level of financial information supervision, it will be more and more difficult for companies to obtain benefits through earnings management, and then they will use ESG greenwashing to replace earnings management, making it a new trigger for stock price crash. Based on the above analysis, we propose the opposing hypothesis:

There is a certain complementary relationship between earnings management and ESG report greenwashing on the impact of stock price crash risk.

There is a certain substitutional relationship between earnings management and ESG report greenwashing on the impact of stock price crash risk.

Chinese listed companies currently follow two disclosure systems to disclose social responsibility information voluntary disclosure and mandatory disclosure. This paper considers the impact of ESG report greenwashing on the stock price crash risk from the perspective of social responsibility information disclosure system. The difference between mandatory disclosure and voluntary disclosure is that mandatory disclosure belongs to the category that must be disclosed according to the policy. Mandatory provisions are made in the structural framework, index content, application mode, etc. firms that follow mandatory disclosure are more standardised in the disclosure of ESG reports, and the disclosure of some quantitative indicators is not easy to manipulate. The management has less autonomy on whether to disclose (Li & Luo, 2016), thus reducing the opportunity for selective disclosure by the management. Therefore, companies under mandatory disclosure have less space to manipulate disclosure information, less content and items to selectively disclose, and the possibility of stock price crash caused by hiding bad news is relatively low. Compared with mandatory disclosure, voluntary disclosure does not have rigid requirements for disclosing specific information. The management can selectively disclose positive ESG information and retain negative information, which exacerbates