greenwashing issues. According to a study conducted by Quilter Investors in 2021, ESG investors' main concern is not their financial performance but that these investments may not be what they claim (Benson, 2021). This concern can be partly explained by the financial sector's lack of control over the quality and reliability of the data used in most ESG investments. These data are largely based on voluntary ESG disclosures made by companies (Cunha et al. 2021; Diouf & Boiral, 2017; Liang & Renneboog, 2020). The lack of transparency of these data, in particular the tendency to disclose positive information on sustainability achievements and to hide information that may damage an organization's image, has been widely highlighted in the literature (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, & Brotherton, 2019; Haffar & Searcy, 2020; Hahn & Lülfs, 2014; Higgins et al. 2020).

The non‐financial rating agencies that establish the sustainability performance rankings of companies, which are in turn used by ESG investors, also depend heavily on the information disclosed by companies (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, & Brotherton, & Bernard, 2020; Boiral et al. 2021; Drempetic et al. 2020). In this context, the risk of greenwashing in sustainable finance seems to be closely linked to the much more documented risk of companies disclosing unreliable information in order to improve their image with stakeholders, including financial market actors (Boiral et al. 2021; Drempetic et al. 2020; Parfitt, 2022; Testa et al. 2018). This risk is exacerbated by the lack of regulation surrounding sustainable finance; the field has been increasingly denounced for its opacity, lack of rigor, and exaggerations (Ahlström & Monciardini, 2022; Chiu, 2022; Chiu et al. 2022; Migliorelli, 2021).

In response to this shortcoming, numerous sustainable finance standards have been developed, particularly starting in 2019 (Chiu, 2022; Migliorelli, 2021; Myers & Czarnezki, 2021). In most cases—including the Financial Sector Amendment Bill (FSAB), which is now law in New Zealand—verification of such standards is based on external assurance that is supposed to give stakeholders confidence in the reliability of sustainable finance activities. The standards' emphasis on this assurance process reflects the existence of an “audit society” characterized in particular by the commodification of audits and the proliferation of audits in different sectors of activity (Boiral & Heras‐Saizarbitoria, 2020; Power, 1997, 2021). It also reflects the normative isomorphism (DiMaggio & Powell, 1983) of audit practices and the “cut and paste” logic underlying them, as they rely on the transfer of professional rules, procedures, and institutional arrangements across different organizations and sectors (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, et al. 2020; Holder‐Webb & Cohen, 2012). In this context, although sustainable finance standards are recent and their implementation has not been extensively studied, the literature on the assurance of corporate sustainability disclosures can help shed light on the issues underlying the external audit practices for these standards and the most likely implications of these practices.

### Institutionalizing the assurance of ESG disclosures for sustainable finance

The assurance of corporate sustainability disclosure has developed rapidly in recent years, particularly in large organizations (Al‐Shaer & Zaman, 2018; Martínez‐Ferrero & García‐Sánchez, 2017; Park & Brorson, 2005; Perego & Kolk, 2012). More than 60% of the sustainability reports of the 250 largest companies in the world were assured by supposedly independent auditors in 2022, compared to approximately 30% in 2005 (KPMG, 2022). This trend is explained by the need to improve the credibility and legitimacy of the information disclosed (Al‐Shaer & Zaman, 2018; Boiral & Gendron, 2011; Martínez‐Ferrero & García‐Sánchez, 2017). Indeed, stakeholders are increasingly denouncing the lack of reliability of this data, and pressure in this area can considerably damage corporate image (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, Brotherton, & Bernard, 2019; Higgins et al. 2020; Perego & Kolk, 2012; Ruiz‐Blanco et al. 2022). In recent years, a growing number of organizations, such as Volkswagen, BMW, Mercedes‐Benz, Shell, ExxonMobil, and Walmart, have been subject to accusations and lawsuits due to their misleading claims about their sustainability commitments (O'Kane, 2021; Robinson, 2022; Truth in Advertising, 2022). These accusations have reinforced public skepticism about alleged corporate sustainability performance, including on the part of socially responsible investment (SRI) practitioners (Arvidsson & Johansson, 2019; Diouf & Boiral, 2017; Reimsbach et al. 2018).

Several studies have shown that fund managers, financial analysts, and institutional investors consider ESG disclosures to be unreliable and inadequate to support responsible investment (Arvidsson & Johansson, 2019; Diouf & Boiral, 2017; Krasodomska & Cho, 2017; Solomon & Solomon, 2006). However, although the assurance process may reduce stakeholder skepticism, its actual effects on the quality and transparency of ESG disclosures remain the subject of controversy (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, & Brotherton, 2020; O'Dwyer, 2003; Perego & Kolk, 2012). According to the mainstream literature, verification by external auditors tends to improve the rigor and reliability of sustainability disclosures (Al‐Shaer & Zaman, 2018; Cuadrado‐Ballesteros et al. 2017; Fuhrmann et al. 2017; Manetti & Toccafondi, 2012; Moroney et al. 2012). It also reduces the information asymmetry with stakeholders and strengthens corporate accountability for sustainability (Cuadrado‐Ballesteros et al. 2017; Fuhrmann et al. 2017). Various studies have shown that the existence of an assurance process improves confidence in the information disclosed, including among investors and ESG fund managers (Cuadrado‐Ballesteros et al. 2017; Fuhrmann et al. 2017; Manetti & Toccafondi, 2012; Moroney et al. 2012; Reimsbach et al. 2018; Stuart et al. 2021). For example, in a study with SRI practitioners, nearly 90% of respondents emphasized that the assurance process was important for improving confidence, reducing prevailing skepticism about the quality of ESG information, and better justifying investment decisions (Diouf & Boiral, 2017).

However, this optimism about the benefits of external audits is being challenged by a growing number of studies (Farooq & de Villiers, 2020; Hickman & Cote, 2019; Michelon et al. 2015; Michelon et al. 2019). The main criticisms concern the opacity of audit practices, the questionable professionalism of auditors, the underlying economic issues, and the dubious quality of data from audited disclosures. First, the superficiality of audits and the vagueness