and the effectiveness of tools to prevent it, specifically external assurance. Critical research on the issue often stresses the importance of strengthening controls and regulatory pressures due to the trend toward the commoditization and managerial capture of audits (Boiral & Gendron, 2011; Farooq & de Villiers, 2020; Krasodomska et al. 2021; Myers & Czarnezki, 2021; Smith et al. 2011). However, the application conditions of this coercive mode of regulation are rarely explained in the literature, and neither are the challenges linked to its implementation or the perceptions of stakeholders on this subject. The article shows the difficulties inherent in the implementation of mandatory assurance in the field of sustainable finance according to the main actors concerned and explains their resistance to this direction. These difficulties are not only linked to the intrinsic limitations of assurance but also to auditors' lack of control over the more fundamental causes of greenwashing. The article highlights the ways in which the main actors in sustainable finance perceive the implementation of auditing practices that, in principle, aim to prevent a problem over which these practices actually have little or no real control. It also describes the way that sustainable finance depends on corporate disclosure practices and performance evaluations by rating agencies that establish rankings used by would‐be responsible investors. Upstream of the financial markets, the uncertainties surrounding the measurement of the sustainability impacts of economic activities, and companies' greenwashing tendencies have repercussions, further downstream, on the disclosures concerning ESG investment products. In this context, the imposition of assurance standards and procedures is likely to reinforce greenwashing by giving a “green,” rational, and reassuring appearance to investment products that lack real sustainability in the first place or whose real impacts cannot easily be measured appropriately. It is therefore reasonable to assume that assurance practices will make greenwashing problems more invisible and abstract. Practitioners are also likely to perceive these problems as being outside the formal responsibilities of ESG fund managers, who will have done their part by using auditing services.

Second, the article contributes to the emerging literature on the institutionalization of sustainable finance practices and the establishment of regulatory mechanisms for these activities (Chiu, 2022; Krasodomska et al. 2021; Migliorelli, 2021; Myers & Czarnezki, 2021). To our knowledge, this is the first empirical study to analyze new standards in this area along with stakeholders' perceptions of their implications. This study responds to the call of Zaman et al. (2021) for more papers at the intersection of corporate governance and ESG. It also responds to Haapamäki's (2022) call for more studies from a neo‐institutional perspective on the implementation of new standards in accounting. It is part of an emerging trend in institutional theory concerning the dynamics of contestation of new standards and practices (Boxenbaum & Jonsson, 2017; Hoffmann & Zuelch, 2014). In particular, it provides a better understanding of the rationale as to why some actors question the taken‐for‐granted utility of the assurance process. By focusing on the process rather than the outcomes of institutionalization, a less developed field in institutional theory (e.g. Dillard et al. 2004; Kaplan, 2018; Lawrence et al. 2001), it is possible to understand better the creation of rational myths concerning the assurance process of ESG disclosures (Dillard et al. 2004; Kaplan, 2018; Schneiberg & Soule, 2005).

The development of new standards to regulate so‐called responsible or green investment practices clearly reflects a need for regulation, which was indeed widely expressed during the public consultations. The institutional arrangements to meet this need revolve around two main points. The first is based on a legislative approach, which seems to be favored in some regions—notably in Europe and New Zealand—and by some practitioners. This approach tends to mandate the adoption of sustainable finance standards and binding verification mechanisms to ensure their effective implementation. The second is a voluntary approach in which standards and verification mechanisms represent best practices left to the discretion of practitioners. While the voluntary approach is predominant in the consultations analyzed, the opinions on the issue and the proposed solutions reflect a wide range of perceptions. Moreover, the predominance of a voluntary approach to implementing standards and verifying them through assurance is not only explained by the constraints and costs of coercive measures. It also reflects the financial sector's lack of maturity and readiness for new sustainable finance standards, which may prove difficult to implement and verify in a rigorous way.

Third, the article contributes to the literature on the development of rational myths in the consideration of sustainability issues (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, & Brotherton, 2019; Gibassier et al. 2018; Jamali, 2010; Perego & Kolk, 2012). These myths have mainly been observed in the implementation of standards concerning management practices, such as ISO 14001, and the disclosure of corporate performance, such as the GRI. To our knowledge, they have not been used in the context of sustainable finance standards or external assurance in this area. Haapamäki (2022) stresses the importance of mobilizing concepts linked to neo‐institutional theory to study audit and assurance issues. This study provides a better understanding of how normative pressures can help us understand competing discourses concerning the efficiency and relevance of assurance processes. The obstacles mentioned in the consultations (e.g. lack of expertise, opacity in measuring corporate sustainability performance, vagueness surrounding verification methods, commoditization of audits) show that the rigorous and rational appearance of external verification for ESG disclosures in the context of sustainable finance is largely exaggerated. This appearance is mainly the result of the analogy with traditional finance standards and practices (Boiral & Heras‐Saizarbitoria, 2020; Etzion & Ferraro, 2010), a point that was often put forward during the consultations. The normative isomorphism underlying the transfer of the auditing vocabulary and practices that have proven successful in finance to the much less structured field of ESG disclosures projects an artificial image of rationality and rigor. This image is thus to a large extent dissociated from what external assurance actually offers in practice. This rational myth tends to be reinforced by the large accounting firms that already offer a multitude of audit services and that wish to quickly establish their legitimacy in the field of sustainable finance.