make assurance a best practice rather than a formal requirement. For instance:“There is no need to make it mandatory, at least at outset. Recommended as best practice, it should become a de facto standard over time. Asset managers who do not provide it will, in time, be trusted less. (Ario Advisory; CFA Institute) ” “A fairer and more reasonable approach would be to grant entities a transitional, probation reporting period of up to two years during which penalties would not be applied. This would enable best practise reporting to develop. It would also ensure sufficient expertise is built up to support independent, audited, verification of disclosures. (Insurance Council of New Zealand; FSAB) ”

Second, approximately 13% of submission contributors who commented on assurance suggested making it mandatory under certain conditions only or limiting assurance to specific issues. In particular, contributors suggested that the size of the organizations should be considered and that assurance obligations should be proportionate to the organizations' means and the volume of assets concerned. According to some submission contributors, the materiality of ESG issues should also be taken into account. For example, the assurance requirement could only cover certain issues deemed critical, such as climate change, and exclude others that may be seen as less material. However, the practices for assessing materiality remain unclear and were not specified in the comment letters reviewed. Other submission contributors emphasized the need to modulate the assurance requirement according to the controls that already exist. For instance, external audits could be required only in regions or for activities that are not already subject to regulations related to sustainable finance. According to some submission contributors, the use or lack of internal audits of ESG assets should also be taken into account. Lastly, submission contributors suggested that explanations could be required on the reasons for not using external assurance or on activities that are outside the scope of the assurance engagement. These various proposals ultimately aim to reduce the costs and constraints associated with a monolithic approach to external assurance, without calling into question the legitimacy of such an approach. These aspects were mentioned by submission contributors as follows:“We strongly urge the CFA Institute to revise the recommendation for an independent examination to exclude circumstances when an investment product is regulated and already subject to extensive legal requirements and regulatory review and examination. (Investment Company Institute (ICI); CFA Institute) ” “Introducing [third‐party assurance] for the largest and most climate‐material companies but phasing for others would allow (a) for companies to learn from larger (presumably better resourced companies) and (b) those providing the service to build skills and capacity. (Brunel Pension Partnership; FCA) ”

## DISCUSSION

The objective of this study was to understand the value and identify the challenges of the assurance process for ESG disclosures on investment products by examining the perspectives of actors who commented on this issue in public consultations on sustainable finance standards. The focus on external assurance issues in the consultations was driven primarily by criticism of greenwashing trends and the need to regulate practices to ensure that “what you see is what you get” in supposed ESG investments. It is also explained by the economic and commercial stakes of the assurance process, in particular for the large accounting firms for which the verification of sustainable finance standards appears as a promising market within the framework of a broader diversification of their activities (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, et al. 2020; Perego & Kolk, 2012; Ruiz‐Barbadillo & Martínez‐Ferrero, 2022).

Voluntary assurance of ESG disclosures by external auditors may be the most appropriate tool for reassuring stakeholders about the quality and transparency of information without subjecting practitioners to overly restrictive measures. However, the implementation of assurance faces major challenges, in particular lack of control over the reliability of ESG data concerning economic activities upstream of the financial markets, lack of available expertise, and vagueness surrounding the process and costs of assurance. Because of these challenges, it is currently difficult to impose requirements for external assurance on ESG disclosures for sustainable finance products in order to prevent misconduct and greenwashing. Still, despite the reservations expressed by actors in the field, market pressures, and stakeholder expectations for greater transparency could soon make this practice de facto mandatory. However, its effectiveness is likely to be limited or even symbolic, especially in the early years of the adoption of these standards, during which it is unlikely that assurance providers will have had sufficient time to acquire the necessary experience and skills. More fundamentally, external verification of the ESG disclosure standards for investment products is unlikely to have a significant impact on the underlying causes of the uncertainties and greenwashing tendencies currently observed in sustainable finance.

### Contributions to the literature

The article makes four main contributions to the literature. First, it contributes to the literature on greenwashing in ESG disclosure