In response to the need to regulate players in the field, various standard‐setting agencies, governments, and professional associations have begun to develop and adopt standards and laws on ESG disclosure for investment products, especially since 2019. These sustainable finance initiatives are very recent and, in some cases, still in draft form; in addition, the willingness and ability of practitioners in the field to adopt them seems, at best, uncertain. To reassure stakeholders on this issue, several initiatives have planned assurance processes that aim to use external audits to verify that sustainable investment products are in compliance with the ESG requirements they are supposed to meet. However, stakeholders' perceptions of this verification process remain unclear, as does the manner in which the processes will be concretely applied to the specific context of ESG disclosure for investment products.

The main objective of this paper is to understand the value and identify the challenges of ESG disclosure assurance in the process of institutionalizing sustainable finance standards and laws. More specifically, this paper addresses the following research question: Among people who have submitted contributions to consultations for the development of sustainable finance standards and laws, what is the perception about the assurance of ESG disclosures used for investment products? To explore this question, we used QDA Miner software to conduct a qualitative content analysis of 188 comment letters received during the consultation processes for three distinct sustainable finance initiatives, namely from the CFA Institute (an international group), the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the UK, and the New Zealand parliament.

The research objective is important for at least four reasons. First, initiatives that aim to improve the quality of ESG disclosures for responsible investments address critical needs. Indeed, the lack of reliable information in this area and the risk of greenwashing are considered to be the main obstacles to the promotion and sound use of this type of investment (Benson, 2021; La Torre & Chiappini, 2021; Myers & Czarnezki, 2021; Popescu et al. 2021). Although sustainable finance standards and laws should in principle improve the confidence of investors and other stakeholders, it remains unclear how these instruments will be applied in practical terms. In the absence of an independent verification mechanism, it is reasonable to assume that the adoption of a self‐proclaimed sustainable finance standard will have little credibility and may add little value in the eyes of investors. This article therefore contributes to the literature on how to limit greenwashing in a new and still under‐researched area.

Second, the article contributes to the literature on the institutionalization process of sustainable finance, which currently includes very few studies on voluntary standards as regulation mechanisms (Chiu, 2022; Myers & Czarnezki, 2021; Popescu et al. 2021). Moreover, the focus on the assurance process makes it possible to highlight the challenges related to implementing and monitoring standards rather than examining their general objectives or particular design. The results of the study thus allow us to anticipate problems that have not necessarily manifested yet but that are likely to appear in the short or medium term.

Third, the article explores the possible rational myth surrounding, on the one hand, sustainable finance standards' appearance of being rigorous, rational, and legitimate and, on the other hand, the reality of practices related to ESG investment products. It provides a better understanding of how normative pressures to introduce new standards have led to the emergence of a counter‐discourse on the effectiveness and relevance of assurance processes. Rational myths are often observed in sustainability management, due in particular to practices that, on the surface, aim to respond to institutional pressures in this area (Boiral, 2007; Gibassier et al. 2018; Perego & Kolk, 2012). The article thus contributes to the literature on rational myths and how they arise around activities that are central to the promotion of sustainability but that have not yet been the subject of extensive empirical investigation. In addition, this article demonstrates the relevance of neo‐institutional theory for studying the implementation of new standards in auditing and assurance (Haapamäki, 2022).

Fourth, the article contributes to the literature on the external assurance of ESG disclosures. Stakeholders' views on the value and effectiveness of such assurance are largely neglected in the research on this issue (Krasodomska et al. 2021; Manetti & Toccafondi, 2012; Wong & Millington, 2014). Therefore, analyzing the submissions to the public consultations set up by the developers of sustainable finance standards to understand the contributors' perceptions sheds new light on the effectiveness of and problems with the assurance process.

The remainder of the paper is structured as follows. Section 2 provides a literature review about the public's confidence in ESG disclosures for sustainable finance, notably by highlighting the rational myths surrounding the assurance of ESG disclosures in the context of sustainable finance. Section 3 presents the qualitative content analysis approach used in this research. Section 4 describes the results obtained from the content analysis. Section 5 includes the discussion of these results, their contributions to the literature, their managerial implications, and the limitations of the study as well as avenues for future research.

## SUSTAINABLE FINANCE AND THE INSTITUTIONALIZATION OF ASSURANCE PRACTICES

### Building confidence in ESG disclosures for sustainable finance

Although the proliferation of sustainable investments (e.g. ESG portfolios, green climate funds, socially responsible products and services, green bonds) seems at first sight to be an encouraging trend when it comes to the integration of sustainability into the financial sector, it raises increasing questions about the foundations of sustainable investments and the transparency of investment products' ESG disclosure (Baldi & Pandimiglio, 2022; Chiu, 2022; Migliorelli, 2021; Popescu et al. 2021).

These questions are fueled by suspicions that some of the sector's big players may have engaged in misconduct. For example, in 2022, Deutsche Bank was raided by the German securities regulator and the federal criminal police office following allegations that it had misled stakeholders and engaged in greenwashing‐like practices regarding so‐called ESG investments (Bloomberg, 2022; Hetzner, 2022). Because of instances like this one, ESG investors are concerned about