Fourth, the article contributes to the literature on assurance practices in sustainability reporting. Although this literature focuses mainly on corporate sustainability disclosure and not on ESG investments (e.g. Al‐Shaer & Zaman, 2018; Manetti & Toccafondi, 2012; Michelon et al. 2015; Park & Brorson, 2005), it is relevant for understanding the motivations for and shortcomings of the assurance of ESG disclosures for sustainable finance. In both cases, assurance practices are essentially motivated by a concern for legitimacy and aim to establish trusting relationships with stakeholders (Jamali, 2010; Martínez‐Ferrero & García‐Sánchez, 2017; Perego & Kolk, 2012). Interestingly, the limitations and challenges mentioned by submission contributors are very similar to those identified in the critical literature—e.g. the superficiality of audits, auditors' lack of qualifications to assess sustainability, and conflicts of interest (Boiral & Heras‐Saizarbitoria, 2020; Farooq & de Villiers, 2020; Gürtürk & Hahn, 2016; Perego & Kolk, 2012). The often harsh comments on the audit industry thus show the reflexivity of SRI practitioners. In most cases, these practitioners seem quite aware of the contradictions between, on the one hand, the need to promote the external verification of data to establish the legitimacy of their activities and, on the other hand, the virtual impossibility of setting up audits that are sufficiently rigorous to really assure stakeholders of the information's quality and transparency. More generally, this article responds to the need for further research on stakeholder perceptions of the institutionalization of audit practices and the quality of ESG disclosures (Diouf & Boiral, 2017; Krasodomska et al. 2021; Manetti & Toccafondi, 2012).

### Managerial implications

The study has practical implications for sustainable finance practitioners, auditing firms, training institutions, organizations developing new standards in this area, and governments. While the widespread use of assurance practices for sustainable finance products is a predictable trend in the medium term given current institutional pressures to ensure data quality, investors and responsible investment practitioners more generally should not take the effectiveness and rigor of audits for granted. The added value of external assurance in improving the transparency and quality of ESG disclosures should be clarified before organizations use assurance services. The same applies to the expertise of auditors, the various assurance methods they plan to use, and the resulting costs.

Given the proliferation of sustainable finance products, the development of standards in this area, and the importance of market opportunities for audit firms, audit firms would benefit from quickly developing their organizational skills through training programs and the establishment of qualified audit teams. In general, the composition of the audit teams and their expertise have a significant influence on the quality of the verification of sustainability disclosures (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, & Brotherton, 2020; Cuadrado‐Ballesteros et al. 2017; Fuhrmann et al. 2017; Zaman et al. 2021). However, due to the lack of expertise available in the market—a problem that was often highlighted in the consultations—the recruitment of specialists in both sustainable finance and external auditing practices currently represents a major challenge that, in some cases, may be insurmountable. In this context, audit firms should instead build diversified teams of distinct specialists from different disciplines to meet the demands and complexity of sustainable finance standard assurance. Training institutions, particularly universities with programs in accounting and finance, should also develop new courses or adjust the content of existing courses to meet the needs expressed by practitioners. Among other things, the various sustainable finance standards, their implications for investor practices, and the tools needed to verify them should be integrated into training programs.

Standard‐setting bodies (e.g. CFA Institute, FCA, ISO, IFRS, IIRC, SEC, SASB) should also further coordinate their efforts to harmonize sustainable finance standards and their associated auditing methodologies. In the case of the three standards included in this study, the current lack of clarity on the criteria for external assurance, particularly in terms of background, expertise, and methodology, may undermine the standards' credibility.

Lastly, governments should closely monitor the development, implementation, and verification of this type of standard, including FSAB, which is a new legislation in New Zealand. Governments should consider implementing regulations based on specific standards or based on some of their recommendations. The same applies to the verification of such standards by external assurance. For example, specific regulations could require sustainable finance practitioners to adopt certain standards and have them assured by auditors meeting clearly defined criteria. Such regulations, with penalties for non‐compliance, would likely deter misconduct and exaggerations in sustainable finance. However, overly restrictive regulations may hinder the development of sustainable finance, as well as current self‐regulatory initiatives in this sector.

### Limitations and avenues for future research

This study has some limitations that can be used to establish avenues for future research. As the sustainable finance standards and laws included in this study were still in draft form or in their infancy, it is still too early to judge their effectiveness and the rigor of their verification through external assurance. Future research could explore these issues further through case studies or in‐depth interviews with practitioners.

The present study is based on a qualitative content analysis that does not allow the results to be generalized. Moreover, the results obtained are directly linked with the three initiatives included in the study and are difficult to generalize to the context of other standards or laws. The content of the comment letters may also have been influenced by the interests of the actors involved, the content of the draft standards, or the political context. Future quantitative studies based on questionnaires covering