Received: 6 March 2023

Revised: 2 November 2023

Accepted: 5 November 2023

DOI: 10.1111/beer.12630

ORIGINAL ARTICLE

Business Ethics, the Environment &amp; Responsibility

Wiley

# What you see is what you get? Building confidence in ESG disclosures for sustainable finance through external assurance

Olivier Boiral¹  Marie-Christine Brotherton¹  David Talbot²

¹Département de management, Faculté des sciences de l'administration, Université Laval, Quebec City, Quebec, Canada
²Centre de recherche sur la gouvernance, École nationale d'administration publique, Quebec City, Quebec, Canada

## Correspondence

Marie-Christine Brotherton, Département de management, Faculté des sciences de l'administration, Université Laval, Pavillon Palais-Prince, 2325, rue de la Terrasse, Quebec City, QC G1V 0A6, Canada. Email: marie-christine.brotherton.1@ulaval.ca

## Abstract

The main objective of this study is to understand the value of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosure assurance in the context of the development of sustainable finance standards and laws. This study is based on an analysis of 188 comment letters submitted by such actors in the context of public consultations on the development of three new sustainable finance initiatives (the CFA Institute, the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK, and the New Zealand parliament). The study shows these actors' nuanced and often quite critical perceptions of the effectiveness of external assurance in preventing greenwashing and their reservations about its mandatory nature. These actors have raised various criticisms, including concerns about the vagueness surrounding verification practices; the lack of expertise available to conduct assurance in a new, specialized, and complex field; the costs of the assurance process, particularly for small players; and the lack of control over the reliability of the ESG data used. This article contributes to several emerging trends in the literature—in particular, research on governance practices to prevent greenwashing, on the institutionalization of sustainable finance standards and laws, and on the role of rational myths in the assurance process for ESG disclosures.

## KEYWORDS

assurance process, audit practices, ESG investments, neo-institutional theory, rational myths, sustainable finance

# 1 | INTRODUCTION

Sustainable finance, which is based on the integration of ESG issues into investment decisions, has experienced unprecedented growth in recent years (Migliorelli, 2021; Popescu et al., 2021). In 2020, ESG assets were estimated to exceed $35 trillion worldwide and are expected to represent nearly a third of all financial assets by 2025 (Bloomberg, 2021). The development of sustainable finance responds to the need to reduce ESG risks—including those related to climate change and the reputational impacts of lack of commitment in this area—and to support the financing of economic

activities that take these issues into account in a meaningful way (CFA Institute, 2022; Chiu, 2022; Cunha et al., 2021; Myers &amp; Czarnezki, 2021). However, greenwashing trends are increasingly criticized and raise fundamental questions about the transparency of ESG investment products (Baldi &amp; Pandimiglio, 2022; CFA Institute, 2022; Hetzner, 2022; Popescu et al., 2021). These criticisms are reinforced by the proliferation of these products and the virtual absence of regulation for practitioners in the field, who are raising increasing amounts of capital to finance supposedly sustainable activities (Chiu, 2022; Krasodomska et al., 2021; Migliorelli, 2021; Myers &amp; Czarnezki, 2021).

This is an open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs License, which permits use and distribution in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited, the use is non-commercial and no modifications or adaptations are made.

© 2023 The Authors. Business Ethics, the Environment &amp; Responsibility published by John Wiley &amp; Sons Ltd.

Business Ethics, Env &amp; Resp. 2024;33:617-632.

wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/beer