Wiley

Business Ethics, the Environment &amp; Responsibility

BOIRAL ET AL.

these issues could be set up to more broadly study the ways that stakeholders (e.g., institutional investors, fund managers, consultants, auditing firms, and investor associations) perceive the various standards, the usefulness of verifying compliance with the standards through external assurance, and the assurance's effects on improving investors' confidence in ESG investment products. These studies would certainly make it possible to measure the differences between stakeholders in terms of their perceptions of assurance practices, particularly regarding these practices' credibility and their effectiveness in preventing misconduct. The political and institutional issues surrounding the development of new standards would also benefit from further investigation, as they were not covered in the present study.

Although this research is limited to the three standards that met the sample selection criteria at the time of the study, others are currently under development or under consideration and would benefit from investigation. This is particularly the case of the ISO 32210 standard on sustainable finance, which could become a reference standard. The International Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB), founded in 2022 by the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) with the aim of launching new sustainable finance standards, also seems destined to play a major role in this rapidly evolving field. The way in which some standards become institutionalized while others remain marginal or do not go beyond the draft stage could be explored further through longitudinal studies.

As the qualitative content analysis used in the present research was not appropriate to study the influence of regional, regulatory, and cultural specificities of perceptions of standards design and implementation, future research could explore these issues. However, given the weight of the underlying economic interests and social desirability biases related to sustainability issues, the actual perceptions and practices of sustainable finance actors remain difficult to clarify.

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This project was supported by the Canada Research Chair in Internalization of Sustainability Practices and Organizational Accountability.

## FUNDING INFORMATION

There is no funding to declare for this article.

## CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT

The authors have no potential conflicts of interest to declare.

## DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT

The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.

## ORCID

Olivier Boiral https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9722-7644

Marie-Christine Brotherton https://orcid.

org/0000-0002-3439-5800

David Talbot https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9675-2703

## REFERENCES

Ahlström, H., &amp; Monciardini, D. (2022). The regulatory dynamics of sustainable finance: Paradoxical success and limitations of EU reforms. Journal of Business Ethics, 177(1), 193-212.
Al-Shaer, H., &amp; Zaman, M. (2018). Credibility of sustainability reports: The contribution of audit committees. Business Strategy and the Environment, 27(7), 973-986.
Alvesson, M., &amp; Spicer, A. (2019). Neo-institutional theory and organization studies: A mid-life crisis? Organization Studies, 40(2), 199-218.
Arvidsson, S., &amp; Johansson, J. (2019). Sense-making and sense-giving: Reaching through the smokescreen of sustainability disclosure in the stock market. In S. Arvidsson (Ed.), Challenges in managing sustainable business (pp. 77-109). Palgrave Macmillan.
Baldi, F., &amp; Pandimiglio, A. (2022). The role of ESG scoring and greenwashing risk in explaining the yields of green bonds: A conceptual framework and an econometric analysis. Global Finance Journal, 52, 100711.
Benson, A. (2021, July 19). How greenwashing may be affecting your investments. Nasdaq https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/how-greenwashing-may-be-affecting-your-investments-2021-07-19
Bloomberg. (2021, July 20). ESG assets rising to $50 Trillion will reshape $140.5 Trillion of Global AUM by 2025, finds Bloomberg Intelligence. https://www.bloomberg.com/company/press/esg-assets-rising-to-50-trillion-will-reshape-140-5-trillion-of-global-aum-by-2025-finds-bloomberg-intelligence/
Bloomberg. (2022, June 7). Deutsche Bank's DWS to keep ESG focus after greenwashing claims. The Business Times https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-06-07/deutsche-bank-s-dws-to-keep-esg-focus-after-greenwashing-claims#xj4y7vzkg
Boiral, O. (2007). Corporate greening through ISO 14001: A rational myth? Organization Science, 18(1), 127-146.
Boiral, O., Brotherton, M. C., Rivaud, L., &amp; Talbot, D. (2022). Comparing the uncomparable? An investigation of car manufacturers' climate performance. Business Strategy and the Environment, 31(5), 2213-2229.
Boiral, O., &amp; Gendron, Y. (2011). Sustainable development and certification practices: Lessons learned and prospects. Business Strategy and the Environment, 20(5), 331-347.
Boiral, O., &amp; Henri, J.-F. (2017). Is sustainability performance comparable? A study of GRI reports of mining organizations. Business &amp; Society, 56(2), 283-317.
Boiral, O., &amp; Heras-Saizarbitoria, I. (2020). Sustainability reporting assurance: Creating stakeholder accountability through hyperreality? Journal of Cleaner Production, 243, 118596.
Boiral, O., Heras-Saizarbitoria, I., &amp; Brotherton, M.-C. (2019). Assessing and improving the quality of sustainability reports: The auditors' perspective. Journal of Business Ethics, 155(3), 703-721.
Boiral, O., Heras-Saizarbitoria, I., &amp; Brotherton, M.-C. (2020). Professionalizing the assurance of sustainability reports: The auditors' perspective. Accounting, Auditing &amp; Accountability Journal, 33(2), 309-334.
Boiral, O., Heras-Saizarbitoria, I., Brotherton, M.-C., &amp; Bernard, J. (2019). Ethical issues in the assurance of sustainability reports: Perspectives from assurance providers. Journal of Business Ethics, 159(4), 1111-1125.
Boiral, O., Talbot, D., &amp; Brotherton, M. C. (2020). Measuring sustainability risks: A rational myth? Business Strategy and the Environment, 29(6), 2557-2571.
Boiral, O., Talbot, D., Brotherton, M.-C., &amp; Heras-Saizarbitoria, I. (2021). Sustainability rating and moral fictionalism: Opening the black box of nonfinancial agencies. Accounting, Auditing &amp; Accountability Journal, 34(8), 1740-1768.
Boxenbaum, E., &amp; Jonsson, S. (2017). Isomorphism, diffusion and decoupling: Concept evolution and theoretical challenges. In R. Greenwood, C. Oliver, T. B. Lawrence, &amp; R. E. Meyer (Eds.), The