of audit methods, scope, and materiality have been highlighted (Boiral & Heras‐Saizarbitoria, 2020; Farooq & de Villiers, 2020; Jamali, 2010; Perego & Kolk, 2012). The audits' lack of depth and the uncertainties about the quality of the data verified are reflected in the predominance of audit results that provide only a limited level of assurance, which seems out of step with the importance of ESG issues and with stakeholders' expectations in this area (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, Brotherton, & Bernard, 2019; Gürtürk & Hahn, 2016; Mock et al. 2013).

Second, several studies have criticized the professionalism of auditors, in particular their lack of training and their tendency to transpose accounting procedures onto very different ESG issues (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, et al. 2020; Krasodomska et al. 2021; Martínez‐Ferrero et al. 2018; Ruiz‐Barbadillo & Martínez‐Ferrero, 2022). Differences in auditor expertise and professionalism partly explain the discrepancies observed in audit quality and scope (Larrinaga et al. 2020; Perego, 2009).

Third, studies have highlighted the managerial capture of audits, the business issues underlying the assurance process, and potential auditor conflicts of interest (Farooq & de Villiers, 2020; Michelon et al. 2019; Smith et al. 2011). In general, extensive research on ESG disclosure assurance practices shows the tendency to instrumentalize it to serve companies' interests rather than those of stakeholders (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, Brotherton, & Bernard, 2019; Jamali, 2010; Perego & Kolk, 2012).

Fourth, while the assurance process sends a positive signal to investors about the ethical culture of organizations (Stuart et al. 2021), studies show that it actually has little or no substantial benefit with regard to the quality of ESG disclosures or corporate misconduct (Christensen, 2016; Du & Wu, 2019; Michelon et al. 2015, 2019). Other studies have shown that ESG disclosure assurance had no impact on reducing the very high proportion (often more than 80%) of observed noncompliance with the reporting standards used by companies, including the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (Boiral et al. 2022; Boiral & Henri, 2017; Talbot & Boiral, 2018).

### Responding to institutional pressures through rational myths

Most studies that have analyzed the effects of assurance processes on the quality of the data disclosed show a gap between the reassuring image they project to stakeholders and what they actually deliver (Boiral et al. 2022; Boiral & Heras‐Saizarbitoria, 2020; Michelon et al. 2015, 2019; Stuart et al. 2021). This gap is evidence of what is known as a rational myth. Institutional theory offers a sociological perspective for understanding the emergence of rational myths and, more generally, how organizations integrate norms, rules, and beliefs into their practices (Alvesson & Spicer, 2019; DiMaggio & Powell, 1983; Meyer & Rowan, 1977). According to this theoretical approach, organizations adopt new structures and practices in response to institutional pressures from various stakeholders, including governments and professional associations (Boxenbaum & Jonsson, 2017; DiMaggio & Powell, 1983), as is the case for several sustainable finance standards. These pressures are not necessarily coercive or prescriptive. They can be normative, meaning linked to ethical considerations or professional requirements.

Many organizations tend to conform with these standards in appearance, to maintain their reputation and social legitimacy, while their internal practices remain relatively inefficient and unchanged. The rational myths resulting from this superficial conformity can respond to various social pressures, including in the area of standardization and verification mechanisms. For example, the dissociation between, on the one hand, the institutional legitimacy of audits and their appearance of rigor, rationality, and ethics in the eyes of stakeholders and, on the other hand, their lack of transparency, professionalism, and effectiveness in improving the quality of ESG disclosure reflects the rational myths underlying the assurance process (Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, & Brotherton, 2019; Perego & Kolk, 2012). Various studies based on the neo‐institutional approach have shown the prevalence of rational myths in sustainability practices, notably because of the unreliability of the performance indicators used and the disconnect between organizations' concern for their image and the efforts they are really willing to make to reduce the impact of their activities (Boiral, 2007; Boiral, Heras‐Saizarbitoria, & Brotherton, 2019; Gibassier et al. 2018; Jamali, 2010; Perego & Kolk, 2012).

Several works on institutional theory have focused on the relationship between institutional pressures and the dissemination of new practices and norms (e.g. Frumkin & Galaskiewicz, 2004; Slack & Hinings, 1994; Tetteh et al. 2023). Boxenbaum and Jonsson (2017) point out that this attention is disproportionate. They also stress the importance of studying new relationships, particularly to better understand organizations' disconnects and isomorphism. This study focuses on an emerging field of research in institutional theory concerning the dynamics of contesting new norms and practices (Boxenbaum & Jonsson, 2017; Hoffmann & Zuelch, 2014). It contributes to a better understanding of rational myths concerning the assurance of ESG disclosures for sustainable finance standards by identifying criticisms that question the taken‐for‐granted utility of such assurance. It thus allows us to examine the role of normative pressures in developing a counter‐discourse on the relevance and usefulness of assurance processes. To our knowledge, this relationship has not been studied yet. This study also provides a better understanding of the institutionalization process. The latter is characterized by various actors' political efforts to influence the development and social acceptance of new norms (Dillard et al. 2004; Kaplan, 2018; Schneiberg & Soule, 2005). Finally, this study responds to Haapamäki's (2022) call for more research using concepts from neo‐institutional theory to study the implementation of standards in auditing and accounting.