a limited time period. Furthermore, the level of assurance applied to sustainability disclosures is rarely high. Some submission contributors feared that the same will be true for the assurance of sustainable investment products; ideally, this should be based on extensive verification, but in practice, the industry is not necessarily inclined to do this, partly because of the costs involved. In this context, the audits are likely to be rather superficial and focus on the design of investment products rather than their actual implementation. The subjectivity of certain analyses and the differences in the rigor of the verifications or in the interpretation of the standards by different assurance providers may also encourage misleading statements about the real meaning and scope of the assurance, as exemplified in certain comments:“While in theory independent examination is ideal, for other ESG‐related standards, not all reviews are equally stringent or cover the same matters. Care should be taken in the design of a verification process for the Standard to not introduce this lack of comparability, and to design a uniform verification process/standard.(CFA Societies Canada ESG Working Group; CFA Institute)Consideration should be given to making sure that the examination is robust, and does not degenerate into a tick‐the‐box process.(Hymans Robertson; CFA Institute)”

Second, concerns about the legitimacy, professionalism, and independence of auditors were highlighted by 35% of submission contributors who addressed assurance issues. The main criticisms in this regard concern the lack of expertise available to conduct rigorous and recognized assurance on ESG disclosures for sustainable finance. The standards are new, and few players have developed sufficient knowledge to carry out the assurance process, which is generally seen as technical, sophisticated, and complex. In the absence of training and professionalization through recognized professional organizations, finding this expertise may represent a major challenge for investors. Several respondents expressed concern that it will simply not be possible to find assurance providers capable of verifying the ESG disclosures covered by the standard. Moreover, it takes time to develop the skills and professional bodies needed to institutionalize sustainable finance best practices and the verification of such practices by qualified auditors, and clearly, the players in the field have not sufficiently anticipated the needs in this regard. The mismatch between needs and available expertise also risks reinforcing unscrupulous and unprofessional behavior on the part of some auditors. Various respondents raised concern about auditors' lack of independence and the high risk of conflicts of interest. In this context, it may be premature to impose binding measures on assurance practices whose procedures and professionalism remain, at best, uncertain. The submission contributors expressed this point as follows:“Assurance standards are by their very nature highly technical and a high level of expertise will be needed to ensure that the assurance is conducted to the appropriate standards. It will take time to build assurance capability and competency following the development of reporting systems, controls and capability.(Institute of Directors (NZ) Inc; FSAB)Close personal relationships (e.g. dating, vacationing together) between members of the verifier's team and individuals at the investment manager who are able to significantly influence the verification or matters relating to the investment manager's compliance with the Standards would also pose independence issues.(Ernst & Young LLP (UK); CFA Institute)”

Third, approximately 21% of the submission contributors mentioning assurance issues highlighted the economic and institutional issues underlying the assurance process. The main concern is the cost of verification, particularly for small asset managers. According to some respondents, the pressure to mandate the assurance of ESG investment products, as in the case of financial data, may favor large asset managers such as banks and institutional investors that can afford this type of practice. These large players may therefore reinforce their dominance in the market. The same applies to assurance providers. The assurance market—including corporate sustainability disclosure assurance—is to a large extent dominated by the “Big Four” accounting firms, namely Deloitte, Ernst & Young (EY), KPMG, and PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), as well as a few large consulting firms. Some submission contributors are concerned that the pressure and requirements for assurance would mainly benefit these large firms, which have diversified their activities considerably and have the resources to create audit teams relatively quickly. Smaller accounting and consulting firms would therefore be penalized. These concerns were expressed especially during the consultations on FSAB, which initially included specific measures on the qualification and accreditation of assurance practitioners. This measure was withdrawn from the draft law following stakeholder consultations because of the underlying commercial issues and pressure, particularly from non‐accountant professionals, as explained in the following comments:“Some submitters were concerned that the requirements to become an approved assurance body could exclude non‐accountants from carrying out GHG assurance engagements. They noted that there are other professionals, including carbon and energy professionals, who have the skills and experience needed to carry out GHG assurance work.(Economic Development Science and Innovation Committee, 2021, p. 5)”

In general, assurance practices in sustainable finance were seen as a potentially very lucrative new market, but one that risks benefiting too