## RESULTS

### Mandatory assurance as a rational myth

Most submission contributors recognized the tendency toward greenwashing in sustainable finance products and the need to put into place an effective regulatory system to prevent abuses. Despite the rapid development of these products, their credibility and even their future may be seriously compromised by the lack of clear, recognized, and correctly applied rules on the foundations and criteria of sustainable finance. In general, it is not so much the existence of a standard on the issue that raises debates, but rather the way it is implemented by the organizations concerned. In this context, the assurance process is seen as necessary to improve both the image of sustainable finance actors and the credibility of the ESG products they offer. In addition, most of the submission contributors were familiar with external auditing practices, which are commonly used in the finance sector. The promotion of external audits also encourages a logic of self‐regulation and thus helps to justify avoiding “command and control” regulations. In some submission contributors' view, auditors also contribute to organizations' learning process with regard to sustainable finance by providing recognized external expertise on ESG issues that are often poorly understood and by exposing misleading information on alleged corporate sustainability performance, as exemplified in the following quotes:“We have been concerned with the risk of organizations taking advantage of investors misunderstanding of ESG labeled investment products. (CIBC Asset Management; CFA Institute) One of the most criticized aspects of current ESG disclosure is that it does not provide any assurance on the products' actual impact on the ground—whether the investments are actually contributing to environmental, social and governance outcomes. (Jungmin Joanne Lee, CFA; CFA Institute) ”

Despite the general support for the usefulness of external verification, positions were more divided on whether it should be voluntary or mandatory. Most submission contributors expressed concern about finding the right balance between the need for more control to prevent abuses in sustainable finance and the need not to overly constrain practices in this area. Approximately 26% of the submission contributors who discussed this were nevertheless in favor of the introduction of mandatory assurance. Proponents of mandatory assurance pointed out that the rigor and success of a standard depends on its external verification. Without it, there is a strong risk that the standard will not be applied rigorously and therefore will not have a real impact on the greenwashing tendency of financial products. Some submission contributors also believed that mandatory assurance is part of the normal evolution of sustainability disclosure, which should be subject to the same rules as in the financial field, where external audits are often mandatory. More generally, mandatory assurance would also play a disciplinary role in the market by strengthening the professional integrity of practitioners and reducing uncertainty. For example:“We support independent assurance by qualified assurance practitioners to validate GHG emissions. We also support independent assurers being regulated, being required to have the appropriate technical expertise and having to abide by an ethical Code. (Insurance Council of New Zealand; FSAB) To elevate information on environmental, social and economic outcomes to the same relevance and quality as financial information, key elements should be subject to equivalent rigorous internal and external controls, including assurance. (Impact Investing Institute; CFA Institute) ”

However, 47% of submission contributors were against mandatory assurance despite their support for assurance in general. Most of them stated that assurance should be voluntary and recommended as best practice. An analysis of the reasons for this opposition highlights important shortcomings in assurance practices.

### Challenges to rational discourse on the assurance process

Submission contributors' opposition to making sustainability disclosure assurance mandatory in the context of sustainable finance reflects, to a large extent, why none of the three standards or laws studied impose such a practice. The numerous comments on this subject illustrate some of the inherent limitations of assurance and revolve around four interrelated issues: the vagueness of the methods used in the assurance process, auditors' lack of legitimacy, the underlying economic issues, and uncertainty about the effectiveness of assurance.

First, the vagueness of assurance methodologies was highlighted by 38% of submission contributors who commented on assurance issues. This vagueness is not only related to uncertainties about the new standards and how they will be applied but it also relates to the assurance process itself, in particular its scope, methods, and timing. What information is assured and what is not needs to be clarified. Among other things, assurance could cover the design of ESG products, the organizations in charge of their implementation, or various ESG disclosure procedures (e.g. policies, performance monitoring mechanisms, and screening methods). The verification procedures, their frequency, and the periods covered by the assurance also remain to be determined. The composition of investment products is often variable and diversified. In this context, assurance could project an overall impression of confidence and reliability when the verification is actually focused on a limited portion of ESG products or