few players. Some submission contributors also felt that the industry is sufficiently regulated and that adding new rules for assurance would add to the constraints already placed on investors and thus discourage the adoption of sustainable finance standards, especially by smaller players. For example:“Introducing third‐party compliance around these kinds of disclosures bring an additional layer of expense to this process which will undoubtedly hamper smaller asset managers—you also end up developing a subset industry of auditors who themselves have to be policed. (CFA Society South Africa; CFA Institute)An assurance standard which is instead linked to the accountancy profession who are relatively new to the carbon management field is likely to disadvantage smaller, more cost‐effective, local assurance providers in favor of the big four global accounting firms. (Lin Roberts, Senior Lecturer in Sustainability and Environmental Management at Lincoln University; FSAB)”

Fourth, although the assurance process is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of the data, approximately 19% of submission contributors who commented on this process expressed skepticism about it. This is mainly because the reliability of sustainability disclosure depends primarily on the quality of corporate sustainability performance data or the rankings by the non‐financial rating agencies that rely on this data. If these data are not reliable at the source, it is difficult for investors to make informed decisions on ESG investments that risk being misleading due to the “garbage in, garbage out” principle. Submission contributors highlighted the lack of rigor and reliability of information and analysis on companies' sustainability performance. In this context, the assurance process does not address a deeper and more fundamental problem over which investors and auditors do not have control. Moreover, sustainable finance standards do not directly address the quality of corporate sustainability disclosures but rather the principles and best practices for investment products' ESG disclosures (e.g. SRI policy and objectives, mechanisms for monitoring and addressing applicable regulations, disclosure of sustainability materials, sources of information used, procedures for addressing climate change issues, consideration of ESG risks, and screening methods in place). Regardless of these good practices, auditors tend to take for granted the quality of the information on which disclosures are based, in particular the rankings used. In this context, the application of standards and their verification may have little impact on the reliability of information that, upstream of investment products, may be based on greenwashing rather than on evidence. Several respondents also highlighted the lack of measurability and comparability of ESG data, which does not allow for a rigorous assurance process. The complexity and often highly diversified nature of investment funds makes it even more difficult for external auditors to verify the information. More generally, sustainable finance standards and associated verification seem, to a large extent, dissociated from real ESG impacts and, according to some respondents, could even reinforce greenwashing rather than reduce it, as mentioned by some submission contributors:“Without naming and categorization standards and established minimum standards for ESG product features, investors could confuse a “compliant presentation” with one that achieves a standard of ESG investment practice. In other words, the Standards could facilitate rather than mitigate “greenwashing.” (Investment Funds Institute of Canada; CFA Institute)We think any independent examinations at this stage would be premature and ineffective. ESG ratings services provide inconsistent results and there is nothing to suggest auditors will be able to make any better assessment. (The Asset Management Group of the Securities Industries and Financial Markets Association (SIFMA AMG); CFA Institute)”

### The way ahead

While criticisms of the assurance process make it unrealistic to require it systematically for sustainable investment products, the consultations highlighted some of the solutions suggested by submission contributors. These solutions revolve around measures that allow for a gradual and circumstantial strengthening of the constraints associated with the external verification of ESG disclosures.

First, about 16% of the submission contributors who commented on the appropriateness of the assurance process felt that it should be voluntary at first and only become mandatory after an adaptation period of a few years (two or three years was the most frequently mentioned period). This adaptation period could give practitioners sufficient time to become familiar with the standards and develop appropriate skills. Several respondents also argue that during the discretionary adoption phase of sustainable finance standards and verification by external audits, assurance practices could quickly become de facto mandatory due to market pressures. Investment managers who voluntarily adopt these practices will indeed have a comparative advantage over those who do not, especially in a context marked by skepticism about the reliability of sustainable finance products and by greenwashing trends. The voluntary adoption phase of assurance could thus serve as a test for this practice and eventually make its institutionalization through binding regulations more legitimate. This gradual approach would also reduce the costs and resistance associated with the assurance process and would eliminate the risk of sanctions against organizations that do not comply with the obligation to use external assurance. The flexible and progressive approach advocated should therefore facilitate the spread of sustainable finance standards and