The objective of this study is to better understand the submission contributors' views on the value of ESG disclosure assurance in the institutionalization process of sustainable finance standards when it comes to improving the quality of disclosures. Given the novelty of the subject and the exploratory nature of the research, a qualitative study based on content analysis was deemed relevant. This method is indeed particularly useful for better understanding new and emerging phenomena (Gephart, 2004; Hsieh & Shannon, 2005).

### Data collection

A preliminary search was performed to identify all the drafts of standards and laws on sustainable finance around the world (n = 13). This search was performed in English, as most of these initiatives are global and therefore available in this language. Many general keywords were used to search for these initiatives online, notably “sustainable finance” and “ESG.” Gray literature (e.g. professional journals, reports, news articles) was also consulted to refine the search and discover relevant initiatives. To be included in this research, the draft standard or law had to be linked to sustainable finance and have been subjected to public consultations for which the comment letters were publicly available. The latter inclusion criterion was verified by consulting each initiative's website. Moreover, in the particular case of this research project, the comment letters for the draft standard or law had to cover the subject of assurance. Some draft standards were therefore excluded because they were not specific to sustainable finance (n = 4), the comment letters were not publicly available (n = 5), or the comment letters did not discuss assurance issues (n = 1) (see Appendix 1).

Following the inclusion process, three draft standards and laws were included in the study. The first is the Global ESG Disclosure Standards for Investment Products from the CFA Institute, which covers ESG issues more broadly on a global level. The CFA Institute initiated three rounds of public consultation for this draft standard between August 2020 and July 2021, which allowed the research team to gather 117 comment letters. The final standard was published at the end of 2021. The second draft standard included in the study is the Proposals to enhance climate‐related disclosures by listed issuers and clarification of existing disclosure obligations from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This standard is specifically designed to help align disclosures with the Task Force on Climate‐related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) for businesses listed in the United Kingdom. It was subjected to public consultations starting in March 2020, for which 14 comment letters were collected by the research team. The standard was approved in December 2020. The third initiative included in this study is a draft law called the Financial Sector (Climate‐related Disclosures and Other Matters) Amendment Bill (FSAB) proposed by the New Zealand parliament. This draft bill, focused on climate‐related disclosures, was subject to public consultations starting in April 2021, and the research team collected 57 comment letters. The bill was adopted by the New Zealand parliament and received royal assent in October 2021. To date, the assurance process is still voluntary for all the standards and laws included in the study.

Overall, the research team collected 188 comment letters totaling 2526 pages of .pdf documents. These comment letters came from 164 individual submission contributors, as some contributors sent comment letters for more than one public consultation. Among these submission contributors, 101 were included in the study, as they commented directly on the assurance process. These submission contributors mainly self‐reported as being asset managers (n = 45), consultants (n = 19), service providers (n = 11), and representatives of professional associations (n = 11) and non‐profits (n = 8).

### Data analysis

An inductive qualitative content analysis was performed for this study (Thomas, 2006). This approach consists of classifying and condensing the raw data using recurring themes and codes to understand the emerging patterns (Thomas, 2006; Varpio et al. 2020). This study used the theory‐informing inductive data analysis approach. This approach emphasizes the central role of data analysis in choosing a theory (Varpio et al. 2020). Researchers may have several theoretical perspectives in mind when designing the study, but theory choice occurs during data analysis. In this case, the coding process influenced the choice of rational myth as the theoretical lens.

The coding tree was developed in several stages. First, all the included comment letters were transferred into the QDA Miner software, which is designed to help with categorizing, sorting, and analyzing qualitative data. A preliminary categorization grid was used to begin the categorization process. Next, two coders worked separately on the categorization. Discussions (n = 3) between the members of the research team helped to further refine the grid by creating, deleting, merging, and splitting codes. The categories used in the grid were also carefully defined to help ensure the consistency of the process. When both coders agreed on the categories involved and adopted a similar categorization pattern, the categorization process was resumed by one of the coders. At the end of the categorization process, 478 passages related to the assurance process were coded into 17 categories (see Appendix 2). Other main themes included in the broader research project on public consultations for sustainable finance standards, such as the general characteristics of disclosures and the format of the standards, were also used to put our data on the assurance process into context. Quotes from submission contributors were identified to illustrate the main results. Relevant percentages were also calculated, even though this type of quantification is generally not suitable for qualitative study (Gephart, 2004; Pratt, 2009).