BOIRAL ET AL.

Business Ethics, the Environment &amp; Responsibility

-Wiley

Sage handbook of organizational institutionalism (Vol. 2, pp. 79-104). SAGE Publications Ltd.
CFA Institute. (2022). Global ESG Disclosure Standards for Investment Products handbook. CFA Institute.
Chiu, I. H. (2022). The EU sustainable finance agenda: Developing governance for double materiality in sustainability metrics. European Business Organization Law Review, 23(1), 87-123.
Chiu, I. H., Lin, L., &amp; Rouch, D. (2022). Law and regulation for sustainable finance. European Business Organization Law Review, 23, 1-7.
Christensen, D. M. (2016). Corporate accountability reporting and high-profile misconduct. The Accounting Review, 91(2), 377-399.
Cuadrado-Ballesteros, B., Martinez-Ferrero, J., &amp; Garcia-Sanchez, I. M. (2017). Mitigating information asymmetry through sustainability assurance: The role of accountants and levels of assurance. International Business Review, 26(6), 1141-1156.
Cunha, F. A. F. d. S., Meira, E., &amp; Orsato, R. J. (2021). Sustainable finance and investment: Review and research agenda. Business Strategy and the Environment, 30(8), 3821-3838.
Dillard, J. F., Rigsby, J. T., &amp; Goodman, C. (2004). The making and remaking of organization context: Duality and the institutionalization process. Accounting, Auditing &amp; Accountability Journal, 17(4), 506-542.
DiMaggio, P. J., &amp; Powell, W. W. (1983). The iron cage revisited: Institutional isomorphism and collective rationality in organizational fields. American Sociological Review, 48(2), 147-160.
Diouf, D., &amp; Boiral, O. (2017). The quality of sustainability reports and impression management: A stakeholder perspective. Accounting, Auditing &amp; Accountability Journal, 30(3), 643-667.
Drempetic, S., Klein, C., &amp; Zwergel, B. (2020). The influence of firm size on the ESG score: Corporate sustainability ratings under review. Journal of Business Ethics, 167(2), 333-360.
Du, K., &amp; Wu, S.-J. (2019). Does external assurance enhance the credibility of CSR reports? Evidence from CSR-related misconduct events in Taiwan. Auditing: A Journal of Practice &amp; Theory, 38(4), 101-130.
Economic Development Science and Innovation Committee. (2021). Financial Sector (Climate-related Disclosures and Other Matters) Amendment Bill—Final Report.
Etzion, D., &amp; Ferraro, F. (2010). The role of analogy in the institutionalization of sustainability reporting. Organization Science, 21(5), 1092-1107.
Farooq, M. B., &amp; de Villiers, C. (2020). How sustainability assurance engagement scopes are determined, and its impact on capture and credibility enhancement. Accounting, Auditing &amp; Accountability Journal, 33(2), 417-445.
Frumkin, P., &amp; Galaskiewicz, J. (2004). Institutional isomorphism and public sector organizations. Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory, 14(3), 283-307.
Fuhrmann, S., Ott, C., Looks, E., &amp; Guenther, T. W. (2017). The contents of assurance statements for sustainability reports and information asymmetry. Accounting and Business Research, 47(4), 369-400.
Gephart, R. P. (2004). Qualitative research and the Academy of Management Journal. Academy of Management Journal, 47(4), 454-462.
Gibassier, D., Rodrigue, M., &amp; Arjaliés, D.-L. (2018). "Integrated reporting is like God: no one has met Him, but everybody talks about Him": The power of myths in the adoption of management innovations. Accounting, Auditing &amp; Accountability Journal, 31(5), 1349-1380.
Gürtürk, A., &amp; Hahn, R. (2016). An empirical assessment of assurance statements in sustainability reports: Smoke screens or enlightening information? Journal of Cleaner Production, 136(A), 30-41.
Haapamäki, E. (2022). Insights into neo-institutional theory in accounting and auditing regulation research. Managerial Auditing Journal, 37(3), 336-357.
Haffar, M., &amp; Searcy, C. (2020). Legitimizing potential "bad news": How companies disclose on their tension experiences in their sustainability reports. Organization &amp; Environment, 33(4), 534-553.

Hahn, R., &amp; Lüfts, R. (2014). Legitimizing negative aspects in GRI-oriented sustainability reporting: A qualitative analysis of corporate disclosure strategies. Journal of Business Ethics, 123(3), 401-420.
Hetzner, C. (2022, May 31). Deutsche Bank raided by authorities over ESG 'greenwashing' claims: 'We've found evidence that that could support allegations of prospectus fraud'. Fortune https://fortune.com/2022/05/31/deutsche-bank-dws-esg-greenwashing-raidevidence-seized-whistleblower-fixler/
Hickman, L. E., &amp; Cote, J. (2019). CSR reporting and assurance legitimacy: A client-assurer dyad investigation. Journal of Applied Accounting Research, 20(4), 372-393.
Higgins, C., Tang, S., &amp; Stubbs, W. (2020). On managing hypocrisy: The transparency of sustainability reports. Journal of Business Research, 114, 395-407.
Hoffmann, S., &amp; Zuelch, H. (2014). Lobbying on accounting standard setting in the parliamentary environment of Germany. Critical Perspectives on Accounting, 25(8), 709-723.
Holder-Webb, L., &amp; Cohen, J. (2012). The cut and paste society: Isomorphism in codes of ethics. Journal of Business Ethics, 107(4), 485-509.
Hsieh, H.-F., &amp; Shannon, S. E. (2005). Three approaches to qualitative content analysis. Qualitative Health Research, 15(9), 1277-1288.
Jamali, D. (2010). MNCs and international accountability standards through an institutional lens: Evidence of symbolic conformity or decoupling. Journal of Business Ethics, 95(4), 617-640.
Kaplan, Y. (2018). Analysing instability as a future for an institutionalization process: The EU, Turkey and the issue of migration. European Journal of Futures Research, 6(1), 16.
KPMG. (2022). Big shifts, small steps: Survey of Sustainability Reporting 2022. https://assets.kpmg.com/content/dam/kpmg/xx/pdf/2022/10/ssr-small-steps-big-shifts.pdf
Krasodomska, J., &amp; Cho, C. H. (2017). Corporate social responsibility disclosure: Perspectives from sell-side and buy-side financial analysts. Sustainability Accounting, Management and Policy Journal, 8(1), 2-19.
Krasodomska, J., Simnett, R., &amp; Street, D. L. (2021). Extended external reporting assurance: Current practices and challenges. Journal of International Financial Management &amp; Accounting, 32(1), 104-142.
La Torre, M., &amp; Chiappini, H. (2021). Sustainable finance: Emerging challenges and opportunities. In M. La Torre &amp; H. Chiappini (Eds.), Contemporary issues in sustainable finance (pp. 1-4). Palgrave Macmillan.
Larrinaga, C., Rossi, A., Luque-Vilchez, M., &amp; Núñez-Nickel, M. (2020). Institutionalization of the contents of sustainability assurance services: A comparison between Italy and United States. Journal of Business Ethics, 163(1), 67-83.
Lawrence, T. B., Winn, M. I., &amp; Jennings, P. D. (2001). The temporal dynamics of institutionalization. Academy of Management Review, 26(4), 624-644.
Liang, H., &amp; Renneboog, L. (2020). Corporate social responsibility and sustainable finance: A review of the literature. European Corporate Governance Institute-Finance Working Paper 701/2020. https://doi.org/10.2139/esrn.3698631
Manetti, G., &amp; Toccafondi, S. (2012). The role of stakeholders in sustainability reporting assurance. Journal of Business Ethics, 107(3), 363-377.
Martínez-Ferrero, J., &amp; García-Sánchez, I.-M. (2017). Coercive, normative and mimetic isomorphism as determinants of the voluntary assurance of sustainability reports. International Business Review, 26(1), 102-118.
Martínez-Ferrero, J., García-Sánchez, I. M., &amp; Ruiz-Barbadillo, E. (2018). The quality of sustainability assurance reports: The expertise and experience of assurance providers as determinants. Business Strategy and the Environment, 27(8), 1181-1196.
Meyer, J. W., &amp; Rowan, B. (1977). Institutionalized organizations: Formal structure as myth and ceremony. American Journal of Sociology, 83(2), 340-363.