performance-related information (Fabrizio and Kim, 2019). Defensive strategies have also been associated with less readable disclosures (Li et al., 2023; Smeuninx et al., 2020; Wang et al., 2018) to obfuscate poor results or with the remedial use of causal language in order to rationalize negatively perceived outcomes and minimize management responsibility for them (Zhang and Aerts, 2015).

Most IM mechanisms studied in prior SR research (such as thematic choice, arguments offered and attributional analysis) rely on a combination of thematic or propositional content and style features. The rhetorical IM features that we investigate are, however, largely detached from the substance or propositional content of the CEO letter, but are deemed to be important to ground the persuasiveness and credibility of the message. For example, assertive language usually relies on a positive tone, extensive self-referencing, clarity and certainty expressions. For defensive IM, managers tend to use more cautious framing and sense-giving devices, such as engagement markers (e.g., "consider", "note that", "you can see that") that "project an aura of credibility gained by openness" and hedging expressions (e.g., "might", "perhaps", "possible") which help create distance from the message and avoid direct responsibility (Aerts and Yan, 2017, p. 416; Hyland, 1998). Those linguistic style markers are helpful in organizing and evaluating propositional content in such a way that readers are guided and directed to how they should distill meaning from, appraise and respond to the information presented (Crismore et al., 1993). They add a sense-giving layer to propositional content and tend to reveal the messenger's stance with regard to the issues involved. Their effectiveness will ultimately depend on the credibility of the signals involved. Credible signals will have to resonate with the background expectations of the audience. In that regard, rhetorical signals must be perceived as credible, not only within the context of the CEO letter as such, but also within the larger disclosure environment of which the CEO letter is only a part. Public industry knowledge and evidence of company-specific performance and behavior as embedded in the larger information environment may act as a constraint on the construction of credible IM.

## 3. Hypotheses development

The main research question of this study is how corporate visibility affects rhetorical IM in SR CEO letters. Corporate visibility has multiple dimensions including general visibility, reflecting the degree to which a company is salient or prominent in the public eye due to its size or industry membership (Ruiz-Blanco et al., 2021), and issue visibility, reflecting the salience of company-specific issues or controversies (Dawkins and Fraas, 2010). Visibility tends to escalate institutional pressure and public scrutiny over corporate behavior. As such, it is believed to affect companies' tendency to symbolism and IM (Greenwood et al., 2011). General visibility is associated with stringent scrutiny over corporate activities and disclosures, yet it does not create a legitimacy threat as such. Disruption in the "legitimacy status-quo" can be a result of a major sustainability controversy that increases the issue visibility of a company.

## 3.1. General visibility and IM

While heightened general visibility associated with sensitive industry membership might increase awareness of the importance of SR and stakeholder engagement, it does not necessarily translate into a direct motivation for IM. Instead, it fosters a complex interplay between institutional pressures, perceived risks and strategic communication choices.

Companies in sensitive industries, such as oil and gas extraction or chemical manufacturing, often have greater business exposure, defined as the degree to which an organization affects its environment and is affected by it (Michelon et al., 2013). This heightened exposure translates into increased scrutiny from a broad range of stakeholders and