creates a strong incentive to maintain legitimacy and the social license to operate through transparent and consensual reporting (Arvidsson, 2014). Institutional literature argues that in a scrutinized environment, accountability and reporting practices tend to become ritualized, largely due to coercive isomorphism stemming from shared agreements and industry regulations (Larrinaga-González, 2007). To maintain legitimacy, managers operating in sensitive industries tend to imitate the decisions and reporting practices of industry leaders within the same institutional reference groups (DiMaggio and Powell, 1983; Van Caneghem and Aerts, 2011). This mimetic isomorphism can lead to increased standardization and use of generally accepted reporting formats, potentially limiting opportunities for more nuanced or individually tailored IM strategies (Aerts and Tarca, 2010).

These arguments suggest that general visibility is not a motivator for IM, but rather acts as a constraint of IM, whereby the current public image of companies in sensitive industries (as embedded in public industry knowledge and documented in transparent SR formats) curbs the construction of IM alternatives (Leary and Kowalski, 1990). Given the low probability of success in creating an alternative impression when the current public image is salient, people are reluctant to present themselves in ways that are inconsistent with information others have about them (Leary and Kowalski, 1990, p. 42). This would, a fortiori, apply to the CEO letter for which the main sustainability report presets a large part of public company-specific information to which the CEO must relate in the CEO letter. Further, the presence of an evaluative audience, aware of the potential for IM, can create a cautious disclosure attitude in corporate narratives. Recognizing that IM strategies can backfire and be perceived as misleading or "cheap talk" in a highly scrutinized environment (Rogers et al., 2011), managers in sensitive industries might avoid overtly promotional language and prioritize presenting objective, verifiable data to support their claims. This aligns with Aerts et al.'s (2013) finding that in highly scrutinized contexts, managers tend to favor technical accounting explanations based on formal and analytical language over more discretionary causal expressions. Thus, while not precluding all forms of IM, the heightened scrutiny in sensitive industries likely shifts the focus toward substantiating claims with verifiable data and aligning with industry best practices, potentially leading to a more cautious and less overtly promotional communication style. This strategic response basically aims at protecting the company's reputation and maintaining legitimacy by minimizing the risk of criticism.

In contrast, companies in non-sensitive industries may operate with less public visibility and face less stringent regulatory pressures, creating a more discretionary reporting environment. Crilly et al. (2012, p. 1436) argue that companies in non-sensitive industries hold "high potential for information asymmetry and can easily build smokescreens around their internal practices". This reduced scrutiny may create opportunities for the CEO for purposive editorializing language and tone, using interactional cues of rational, affective and interpersonal appeal that go beyond matter-of-fact reporting and guide the audience to a preferred mindset. Based on the above discussion, we predict the following:

H1a: General visibility driven by sensitive industry membership is positively associated with the use of more formal and analytical language in the CEO letter.

H1b: General visibility driven by sensitive industry membership is negatively associated with the use of more explicit rhetorical IM in the CEO letter.

## 3.2. Issue visibility and IM