accountability concerns, but also need to be understood as a response to external scrutiny pressures (Cho et al., 2010). Moreover, Marais (2012) points out the predominance of the theme of moral legitimacy when communicating sustainability efforts, with an emphasis on portraying the organization as a good corporate citizen by employing discourse of goodwill and through invoking emotion and affection to persuade the audience. Such a communication approach would necessarily rely on language and rhetoric to convince the audience of a preferred mindset.

## 2.2. Impression Management

Perception management within the context of legitimacy strategies is close to the concept of IM which refers to the processes by which people manage and control the image they display with the intention of changing the impression of others in order to be perceived and evaluated more favorably (Leary and Kowalski, 1990). Leary and Kowalski (1990) portray an array of IM drivers that either relate to IM motivation or IM construction⁴. We argue that the visibility dimensions that we investigate in this study, are circumstantially related to both components of their model.

In SR narratives, IM can be achieved through thematic control (e.g., biased selection of themes, performance comparisons or visual presentation) and through style control (e.g., the use of complicated language to obfuscate bad news) (Barkemeyer et al., 2014; Merkl-Davies and Brennan, 2007). What we refer to as rhetorical IM are editorial and linguistic choices that are instrumental in building support, convincing investors, and sustaining confidence and credibility; they are primarily style-related.

Traditionally, IM in narrative disclosures has been mainly studied by examining the relationship between linguistic features and organizational performance (Melloni et al., 2016). When company activities and outcomes are desirable, managers tend to adopt IM as an assertive strategy in a proactive manner to enhance and emphasize companies' positive outcomes to gain competitive advantage (Barkemeyer et al., 2014; Boiral et al., 2020). Assertive IM involves highlighting unique organizational competencies and business skills (Boiral et al., 2020; Bolino et al., 2008). Managers using this strategy stress the importance, relevance and scope of positive environmental outcomes or actions positing an acclaiming and self-confident stance in the message delivered (Aerts and Cormier, 2009; Aerts and Yan, 2017). In other words, the aim of assertive IM is to make a positive outcome more obvious to the audience and project an impression of organizational success. These strategies are reflected in managers' use of language, where a stronger positive tone, extensive self-referencing, emphatic certainty expressions and achievement- and future-related content references are used (Aerts and Yan, 2017). In the context of SR, scarce evidence suggests that in companies with good sustainability performance, managers tend to use a tone of optimism, clarity and certainty, as well as readable language to signal their achievements (Li et al., 2023).

In circumstances that threaten legitimacy, managers tend to employ defensive IM strategies (Bolino et al., 2008). In the literature, defensive IM strategies, which encompass distractions, apologies, excuses, justifications or self-handicapping, are used as an umbrella term for reactive mechanisms (Boiral et al., 2020). By using such techniques, managers can deny responsibility for negative outcomes, or seek to re-establish a positive identity by removing negative perceptions and purposefully giving sense to the organization's actions (Caliskan et al., 2021). They may also prefer to withhold or obfuscate unfavorable

⁴ IM motivation reflects the desire to influence others' perceptions, while IM construction focuses on determining the impressions one aims to create and the strategies to achieve them. IM motivation is associated with goal-relevance of impressions, value of desired goals and discrepancy between desired and current image. The second component, IM construction, relates to self-concept, desired and undesired identity images, role constraints, target’s values and current or potential social image (Leary and Kowalski, 1990).