The higher damage potential of controversies in sensitive industries may heighten the perceived severity of image discrepancies and increase the goal relevance of perception management (Leary and Kowalski, 1990). We expect this to act as a strong motivator for CEOs in sensitive industries to take up an active rhetorical stance to engage with the audience in an effort to restore perceived legitimacy in a reactive mode. Only relating to or reinforcing corporate disclosures from the main report through complacent formal language in a descriptive or analytic fashion would not suffice in that regard. To restore confidence, effective rhetorical language is expected to invoke a sense of immediacy in order to rationalize or normalize mediatized controversies. This is consistent with prior research demonstrating the use of legitimization strategies for negative incidents among sensitive industries (Hahn and Lülf, 2014; Talbot and Boiral, 2018).

Moreover, given the challenges managers in sensitive industries face when trying to highlight favorable outcomes from their sustainability initiatives, we project that general visibility will amplify the CEOs' resistance to using an assertive communication style when addressing controversies. In non-sensitive industries, controversies may be seen as exceptions rather than part of a pattern, allowing companies more leeway to use assertive language or make positive statements in their responses. In contrast, companies in sensitive industries have high base-level exposures (Cho and Patten, 2007) and operate under higher stakeholder situational skepticism (Aqueveque et al., 2018). As such, they are closely scrutinized on how they respond to controversial issues, with particular attention to misleading claims (Marshall et al., 2023). Consequently, companies in sensitive industries are less inclined to manage their public image through the disclosure of positive information related to sustainability issues that are subject to controversy, compared to their counterparts in the less sensitive sectors (Roszkowska-Menkes et al., 2024). Thus, we expect that:

H3a: The positive relationship between issue visibility and defensive rhetorical IM in the CEO letter is positively moderated by general visibility.

H3b: The negative relationship between issue visibility and assertive rhetorical IM in the CEO letter is negatively moderated by general visibility.

## 4. Methodology

To study rhetorical IM in SR, we employ a three-step methodological approach. First, we conduct an automated text analysis to examine the linguistic style features in SR CEO letters. Second, we conduct a factor analysis to reveal co-occurrence patterns among linguistic markers derived from the previous step to identify rhetorical IM profiles. Finally, we test our hypotheses in empirical models with the rhetorical profiles as dependent variables.

## 4.1. Sample selection and data collection

We selected listed companies from the EU, the UK and the US that published a stand-alone SR for the fiscal year 2016 according to the Refinitiv (Thomson Reuters’ Asset4ESG) database. The sample composition allows diversity in country-level institutional context that has been shown to affect language postures (Aerts and Yan, 2017; Liu and Liu, 2023; Smeuninx et al., 2020). In this regard, we sample companies from the US, UK and Continental Europe respectively to include implicit (Continental Europe) and explicit (US and UK to a lesser degree) CSR institutional environments (Matten and Moon, 2008). Moreover, the sample composition also captures capital market differences that may affect the goal relevance and the value of desired outcomes of IM (Leary and Kowalski, 1990). Structural differences in share ownership and shareholder activism as well as CEO pecuniary differentials that exist among