Anglo-Saxon and continental European countries may affect CEO motivation to engage in IM. For example, institutional differences in CEO power and CEO compensation may affect the value of desired IM outcomes, suggesting a higher propensity in portraying CEO leadership identity and managerial competence to preserve power and lucrative compensation arrangements in an Anglo-Saxon market environment.

We extended the time frame for the selected companies from 2010 to 2019 and manually collected the reports in PDF from their websites, corporate register (corporateregister.com), and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) database (globalreporting.org). We excluded companies that operate in the healthcare, financials, real estate, government activities, and academic and educational services sectors; companies that do not publish their reports in English; companies that use integrated reporting; SR that do not include CEO letters; SR that are protected and cannot be processed; and CEO letters counting fewer than 350 words⁵ in length. We manually processed CEO letters in SR in accordance with prior research and excluded CEO letters that do not contain sustainability-related information. This selection process yielded a sample of 2,139 CEO letters from 384 companies that we later used in factor analysis to create rhetoric variables. We combined the sample of CEO letters with data we needed for explanatory and control variables derived from Refinitiv and Bloomberg and excluded observations with missing data. The final sample used in the multivariate analyses consists of 1,805 CEO letters from 345 companies headquartered in 18 countries⁶.

## 4.2. Linguistic analysis

To examine the linguistic style used in CEO letters, we use LIWC-22, which is based on strong empirical evidence that language can provide rich insights into people's psychological states, including emotions, thinking styles, and social concerns (Boyd et al., 2022). This software has been extensively tested in numerous social psychology studies and has also been used in the corporate reporting context (e.g., Aerts and Yan, 2017; Merkl-Davies and Brennan, 2007). We use LIWC-22 to reveal the functional, affective and cognitive components of the CEO letters. We employ the three summary psychosocial variables of LIWC: (1) analytical thinking; (2) clout; and (3) emotional tone. In addition to these, we use the cognitive processes variable. The three summary variables are composite measures derived from previously published findings from Pennebaker Language Lab and converted to percentiles based on standardized scores from large comparison samples (Boyd et al., 2022). Each of the variables is transformed into a scale from 1 to 100, and they are mainly based on function words. Function words have been found to be reliable markers of psychological states, revealing how people think (Pennebaker et al., 2014). For example, high use of single-person or second/third-person pronouns has been associated with self- or other-focus, respectively; auxiliary verbs with the use of passive language; articles with formal and structured style of writing; and conjunctions with cognitive complexity (Aerts and Yan, 2017; Pennebaker et al., 2007). The analytical thinking variable captures the degree to which people use words that suggest formal, logical and hierarchical thinking patterns (Pennebaker et al., 2015). The lexical categories of a higher analytical thinking score include articles, prepositions which reflect a more technical language; while a lower score includes pronouns, auxiliary verbs, conjunctions and adverbs which reflect a more informal and personal language (Pennebaker et al., 2015). The clout variable refers to the relative social status, confidence, or leadership that people display through their language (Boyd et al., 2022). A higher clout score is measured by 1ˢᵗ person plural (we) and second-person pronouns (you), which reflects confident, credible and collectively-oriented language; while a lower clout score is measured by tentative words (e.g.,

⁵ Prior text analysis software baseline its measures based on a minimum of 350 words (https://docs.receptiviti.com/). Hence, we impose a minimum word limit for our investigation based on 350 words.

⁶ In Appendices, we present more detailed selection criteria (Table-AI) and the final sample summary statistics (Table-AII) with respect to distribution by year, country, region, and industry.

10