investigates how balancing these needs is affected by corporate visibility driven by sensitive industry membership and mediatized controversies.

Our paper shows that higher general visibility from sensitive industry membership with its stronger scrutiny pressures leads to a more formal and analytical language style. Avoiding explicit rhetorical IM that is typically permeated with emotional, personal and story-telling language, reflects a restrained and risk-averse communication approach that may serve as a safeguard against potential backlash from stakeholders. This caution is evident in companies operating in sensitive industries, where the risk of being seen as merely window-dressing environmental efforts is higher. While these results are consistent with findings of previous studies (e.g., Marquis et al., 2016, Ruiz-Blanco et al., 2021), we only observe an impact of general visibility on the use of assertive IM, and not on defensive IM. This indicates that both forms of rhetorical IM follow different internal logic and connect with different drivers.

Our results suggest that managers allow themselves to be assertive only when they are not afraid of being accused of "greenwashing". Companies with a lower environmental footprint face less scrutiny and activist pressure (Marquis et al., 2016) and seem less constrained by public knowledge to profile themselves and take up an assertive stance in portraying leadership and authority in the sustainability domain as a way to establish legitimacy (Tan et al., 2014). Such outward-facing and authoritative communication allows CEOs to demonstrate confidence and control. While assertiveness is typically proactive, defensiveness is reactive and would not be consistent with an aura of confident agency and leadership. As demonstrated, defensive IM is only triggered when corporate legitimacy is overtly challenged. O'Donovan (2002) argues that the legitimation techniques chosen depend on whether the company is trying to maintain the current level of legitimacy or repair damaged legitimacy. Controversies disrupt a company's legitimacy status, rapidly attract media attention through news and social media, and increase the discrepancy between the desired and current image of the company (DasGupta, 2021; Elsbach and Sutton, 1992). This break in the legitimacy status-quo motivates CEOs to use defensive IM strategies to mitigate reputational and regulatory risks. Our findings show that in the face of a legitimacy threat, CEOs resort to sense-giving mechanisms in a more conversational style, probably in an effort to contextualize and normalize. The highly discretionary nature of the CEO letter makes it more suited to react to controversies than the main report would allow. Defensive rhetorical IM is primarily in play for companies in highly visible, sensitive industries. These companies are exceptionally vulnerable to reputational damage from mediatized sustainability controversies. Any negative event is likely to be amplified by media attention and public outrage. CEOs of these companies are under immense pressure to address the controversies head-on in their letters. They cannot simply ignore them or offer formal or vague statements but need to step in reactively to address and clarify the issues involved. As Tata and Prasad (2015) predict, the relationship between a legitimacy gap and the organization's motivation to close it through sustainability communication will be stronger under high levels of media attention and public scrutiny, which is supported by our findings.

Contrary to our expectations, there is no empirical evidence to substantiate a negative relationship between sustainability controversies and assertive IM. It suggests that assertive and defensive language (and formal and analytical language for that matter) are not mutually exclusive as they respond to different triggers. CEO letters may contain both assertive and defensive components with assertiveness being more pervasive and long-term than reactive language. In the same vein, CEO letters have both an analytic and a narrative component, but they are likely to differ on a continuum along which information-structural language versus story-driving language is used, depending on context (of which general visibility and issue visibility shows to be an important ingredient).

17