reactive cognitive framing in response to controversies is mainly prompted by general visibility. Interestingly, we find that identified explicit IM styles are both positively correlated with readability, shedding new light on the use of low readability as a proxy for IM in prior studies. With respect to the interdependency between the CEO letter and the main part of the report, our results indicate that, in general, higher disclosure transparency tends to promote more formal-analytical language and less rhetorical IM by the CEO. This suggests that CEO letters are, indeed, not independent documents separate from the main report and that CEOs appear to consider the company's general disclosure transparency when constructing their narrative. Overall, our results offer valuable insights into the interconnections among visibility, scrutiny and concerns about legitimacy, enriching the scholarly discourse within the field of corporate sustainability.

The remainder of the paper proceeds as follows: The second part provides a brief literature review of SR and IM. In the third part, we introduce visibility notions and develop our hypotheses. The methodology used is presented in part four. The fifth part presents our research findings (including robustness checks). Finally, in part six, we discuss our findings and conclude.

## 2. Literature review

### 2.1. SR and related CEO letters from the legitimacy lens

Prior research shows that SR is considered a hybrid disclosure outlet, combining both promotional and informative functions (Fuoli, 2018). Promotional aspects are particularly evident in narrative sections that stress storytelling which is crucial in shaping stakeholder perception (Aerts and Cormier, 2009; Marais, 2012). The SR CEO letter is prominent in this regard. It is generally acknowledged that the CEO letter is one of the most read parts of the annual report (e.g., Barkemeyer et al., 2014; Amernic et al., 2010; Liu and Liu, 2023). While CEOs may not be the primary authors of these letters (Liu and Nguyen, 2020), which are presumably the “end product that has been filtered through several layers in the company” (Arvidsson, 2023, p. 34), CEOs exert significant influence on both their content and linguistic style (Post et al., 2022). Bearing their signature, CEOs have a personal interest in at least closely reviewing and approving the final version of the CEO letter before making it public (Amernic et al., 2010)³. A CEO letter is, however, not written in isolation. It is not a standalone reporting device but rather an integral part of the SR repertoire. As such, it needs to be understood as a highly discretionary component part of the larger SR package. This may mean significant interdependency with the scope and content of the main sustainability reports and a high degree of diversity in editorial choices made across companies.

Overall, legitimacy theory views SR as a means to uphold legitimacy and address external pressures (Cho and Patten, 2007). Organizational legitimacy can be sustained or altered either through corporate actions or by managing perceptions, with the latter probably being the easier and cheaper alternative (Bansal and Kistruck, 2006). In this regard, SR CEO letters can be used as a symbolic legitimacy tool to proactively bolster or amend the company image and reputation or to repair damaged legitimacy (Cho and Patten, 2007). From this perspective, SR CEO letters do not always reflect a company's authentic dedication to sustainability (Talbot and Boiral, 2018), nor are they solely motivated by transparency and

³ Prior research convincingly demonstrates that CEO characteristics (e.g., gender, overconfidence, narcissism) influence the language (e.g., tone, readability) used in CEO letters (Liu and Nguyen, 2020; Le Maux and Smaili, 2024). In a similar vein, studies show that CEO changes lead to variations in style, length, and content of the letters, while letters signed by the same CEO tend to exhibit consistency (Eggers and Kaplan, 2009). Indeed, famous business leaders, such as Jack Welch and Warren Buffet, publicly acknowledged their strong involvement in shaping their CEO letters (Amernic et al., 2010).