Issue visibility is prompted by the salience of company-specific sustainability-related issues or controversies. Corporate controversies, defined as publicly observable events that are expected to have negative implications on the firm (Del Giudice and Rigamonti, 2020, p.2), attract media attention and create a gap between a company's desired image and its current, less favorable public perception, ultimately jeopardizing the company's legitimacy and value (DasGupta, 2021; Elsbach and Sutton, 1992).

Drawing on Leary and Kowalski's (1990) two-component model of IM, we argue that sustainability controversies affect both impression motivation and impression construction. Controversies not only increase public perception, making impressions more goal-relevant, but also highlight the discrepancy between a company's desired and current image, both increasing managers' motivation to employ IM strategies. The choice of IM strategy is influenced by the current and potential social image that the company aims to project. Sustainability controversies, as public failures, damage a firm's current image and compel managers to adopt face-saving strategies and legitimization tactics such as apologies, excuses, and self-serving attributions to dissociate themselves from negative events (Boiral, 2016; Hahn and Lülf s, 2014).

Most narrative IM tactics blend propositional content with an appropriate language style. A defensive style tends to include cognitive mechanisms, such as tentative expression, hedges, directive language and insight words, that signal cognitive effort and facilitate coherence and comprehension of the message by the receiver (Hyland, 1998). They tend to invoke plausibility rather than certainty. Such cognitive mechanisms are helpful in signaling the presence of a considerate, capable and honest communicator. As such, they are likely to sustain the CEO's credibility and honesty, making it easier for stakeholders to connect with the challenges and constraints of the company (Aerts and Yan, 2017). Relatedly, sustainability controversies are likely to undermine the credibility of an overly optimistic tone and of self-serving acclaiming and storytelling. Further, as reported by Rogers et al. (2011), overly optimistic language (as in assertiveness) can increase litigation risks during corporate controversies.

Conversely, in the absence of controversy, CEOs have more room to proactively claim positive achievements and to portray a positive image of an authoritative, confident and engaging actor in the sustainability domain. As Tata and Prasad (2015) suggest, CEOs in companies with a neutral or favorable public image are likely to use assertive communication to further enhance their reputation, while companies facing negative publicity are more likely to adopt a more protective stance. Thus, we propose the following hypotheses:

H2a: Issue visibility driven by sustainability controversies is positively associated with defensive rhetorical IM in the CEO letter.

H2b: Issue visibility driven by sustainability controversies is negatively associated with assertive rhetorical IM in the CEO letter.

Sustainability controversies pose a legitimacy risk for all companies; however, firms operating in sensitive industries are particularly vulnerable due to heightened public and regulatory scrutiny associated with the inherent risks of their operations. Greater business exposure would exacerbate reputational and financial vulnerabilities when controversies put legitimacy in jeopardy (Aouadi and Marsat, 2018; Del Giudice and Rigamonti, 2020). In sensitive industries, where accidents are especially costly to the environment and society, regulators tend to be less forgiving than in non-sensitive industries (DesJardine et al., 2023).

8