Our study adds to the literature in several respects. Our methodological approach offers a more fine-grained focus on linguistic features in SR CEO letters and extends the existing body of research, which predominantly depends on qualitative methods involving small sample sizes and/or does not differentiate between reporting genres within SR. First, our analysis allows us to disentangle different forms of rhetorical IM management, their mutual interactions and their underlying drivers, highlighting how they are triggered by distinct legitimacy concerns. Ultimately, the study enriches our understanding of how CEOs navigate the complex terrain of sustainability communication to manage public perception and balance highly context-dependent legitimacy needs.

Second, in contrast to prior literature that identifies low readability as an IM strategy (e.g., Li et al., 2023; Smeuninx et al., 2020; Wang et al., 2018), we corroborate that both assertive and defensive IM styles tend to be more readable than a formal-analytical style. Higher readability will facilitate the accessibility of the key messages and, thus, their persuasive potential. This is consistent with the rhetorical intent of the assertive and defensive style patterns: they can only be persuasive and effective in changing impressions to the extent that they are accessible and understandable by the main audience of the CEO letter. In contrast, formal and analytical language, though probably more precise and objective, tends to be more complex and technical, which burdens readability as measured by the traditional readability formulae. Our findings suggest that readability is rather the outcome of more refined linguistic style choices than a direct IM tool.

Furthermore, our analysis also reveals an interesting interdependency between the CEO letter and the main report. The empirical models show that changes in the CEO narratives with respect to language style occur in concert with the transparency of the disclosure environment. Formal-analytical language, prevalent in CEO letters of companies operating in sensitive industries, is highly impersonal and descriptive and creates a sense of objectivity and helps to establish a professional tone. It is in line with the language of accountability and transparency that permeates the main report. This suggests close alignment of the CEO letter with the main reporting outlet which, in itself, already tends to be of higher quality for sensitive industries. The relatively high information threshold of the main report may act as a constraint on promotional postures. Formally and logically aligning with what is already there in the main report seems to be the pragmatic way for CEOs in sensitive industries to maintain credibility and legitimacy. Moreover, interestingly, with respect to GRI, we observe a shift from an assertive style towards more formal and analytical language in SR that does not follow GRI guidelines. While CEOs tend to communicate in an authoritative and optimistic manner in reports prepared according to GRI, their language becomes more cautious when the report is not standard-based. This observation aligns with studies suggesting that the GRI framework may not necessarily guarantee high transparency of disclosures. Instead, it is often employed as a symbolic practice (Michelon et al., 2015; Roszkowska-Menkes et al., 2024) and, as our findings show, can be complemented by an assertive IM in the CEO letter.

Finally, although not explicitly hypothesized, our findings corroborate strong region-based effects on style features of the CEO letter. CEOs from the US and UK companies typically face a more active and demanding investor environment and may have stronger power-related and pecuniary incentives to engage in active IM. In addition, the more explicit CSR environment in which these companies operate (Moon and Matten, 2008), allows more room for corporate initiative to link sustainability issues with company-level identity and reputation (Blindheim, 2015). In our data, this translates into a significant positive effect on rhetorical IM and a negative effect on formal-analytical style. This could suggest that the CEO letter in these countries is typically motivated to cater to a shareholder perspective on the company's sustainability track record.

18