With respect to practical implications, our empirical exploration of the rhetorical IM in SR along with the identification of instances of the use of formal-analytical style and IM provides valuable insights for policymakers. This investigation enhances understanding of how CEO rhetorics is related to transparency in sustainability-related information and accountability within SR. In addition, our research is expected to help investors and analysts assess companies and the credibility of their corporate communication, which can eventually shape socially responsible investor behaviors and contribute to developing a more effective governance and regulation system in the realm of SR. This is particularly important in light of the increasing financial relevance of sustainability-related risks and opportunities. Our results may also be of interest to investors and financial analysts, as assertive rhetorical IM in financial CEO letters has been shown to be negatively related to the dispersion of financial analysts' earnings forecasts and positively to earnings forecast accuracy (Yan et al., 2019).

A major limitation of our study is the availability of SR of companies. The reliance on databases is insufficient, necessitating a considerable amount of time in the manual data collection process. This constraint led to a reduction in the number of disclosures included in the analysis. As a result, our sample size did not permit, for instance, a more detailed examination of the impact of the institutional environment, including nuanced distinctions between the varieties of capitalism present in Continental Europe (Pinto et al., 2019). Additionally, with the increasing use of integrated reporting ("IR") framework, both sustainability and financial information are combined. Yet, our sample is based on "SR only" to allow for a clear focus on IM strategies in sustainability-related information. Moreover, with our analysis identifying interdependencies between the CEO letter and the main body of the sustainability report, further empirical research is needed to gain a deeper understanding of how increased transparency may discipline CEO IM, particularly in light of the increasing efforts and convergence among standard-setting institutions, including the IFRS Foundation, EFRAG, and GSSB, to develop integrated and globally aligned SR standards. Lastly, the language used in CEO letters to convey personalized messages can largely be influenced by the author's characteristics, including gender and personality traits (Liu and Nguyen, 2020; Le Maux and Smaili, 2024). While this topic remains beyond the scope of our study, we encourage future research to examine how the interplay between organizational visibility and CEO characteristics affects IM in SR.

Notwithstanding these limitations, future studies should explore and shed light on the factors and policies affecting accountability in SR and the influence of corporate governance factors that may restrict managers' use of SR as a symbolic legitimacy tool. We emphasize that continued efforts are needed to make SR more accountable and transparent. In final words, we would like to refer to Patten (2019): "Legitimacy-based research can help move CSR disclosure at least closer to being a tool of accountability, as opposed to a tool for legitimation".

## Reference List

Aerts, W., Cheng, P., and Tarca, A. (2013), Management's Earnings Justification and Earnings Management under Different Institutional Regimes. Corporate Governance: An International Review, 21(1), pp. 93-115. https://doi.org/10.1111/corg.12014
Aerts, W., and Cormier, D. (2009), Media legitimacy and corporate environmental communication. Accounting, Organizations and Society, 34(1), pp. 1-27. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aos.2008.02.005
Aerts, W., and Tarca, A. (2010), Financial performance explanations and institutional setting. Accounting and Business Research, 40(5), pp. 421-450. https://doi.org/10.1080/00014788.2010.9995322