by the company's business exposure, we also assess the effect of the interaction of industry and controversies on the use of IM.

Second, prior SR studies have predominantly focused on content-based IM, including selective disclosure (e.g., Marquis et al., 2016, Roszkowska-Menkes et al., 2024) and imagery (e.g., Boiral, 2013), while little attention has been paid to style-related IM, i.e., managers' use of language. The discretionary nature of corporate narratives can be exploited opportunistically by managers by crafting linguistic style to guide readers on how content is to be appreciated along a preferred mindset (Talbot and Boiral, 2018). Style-based IM can take a variety of forms using affective tone, personalization or cognitive devices (e.g., causal language, certainty expressions, etc.). While the limited prior research in this area has primarily examined readability manipulation as an obfuscation strategy (e.g., Li et al., 2023; Smeuninx et al., 2020; Wang et al., 2018), our study offers a more nuanced analysis of linguistic style in SR.

Finally, we focus on the CEO letter as a distinct genre within SR, offering the highest degree of freedom in editorial and linguistic choice and not directly burdened by institutionalized reporting frameworks. Research on the actual talk of sustainability in the CEO letter is currently rather limited (Arvidsson, 2023). We need to acknowledge, however, that the CEO letter is not a comprehensive nor an independent SR vehicle. It is rather a somewhat superimposed piece in the SR repertoire that provides the CEO the opportunity to put a personal stamp on how to position the corporate sustainability challenge, but with the main report as the bottom line. Editorial choice may materialize in summarizing highlights of the main report, introducing the general setting or providing closure of the issues involved. Whatever the chosen editorial perspective, it can be assumed that the level of transparency of the main report will affect the language use in the CEO report. By disregarding the specific status and interdependency of the CEO letter, previous studies might have overlooked the nuanced ways in which CEOs' editorializing complements the main report responding to stakeholders' legitimacy concerns. By controlling for the overall transparency level of SR, we investigate how CEOs engage with the information presented therein.

To this end, we employ a sample of 2,139 CEO letters from 384 companies from the EU, the UK and the US that published a stand-alone SR between 2010 and 2019. We utilize the three summary variables and the cognitive processes variable of the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC) software, which reveal the functional, affective and cognitive linguistic elements encompassed within SR CEO letters. Through factor analysis, we identify rhetorical profiles in SR CEO letters. This approach yields three rhetorical profiles: (1) formal-analytical; (2) assertive; and (3) defensive. Formal-analytical relates to formal, rational and hierarchical language use (Pennebaker et al., 2015), while assertive and defensive relate to narrative styles that are less technical and less factual but imply purposeful sense-giving (Arvidsson and Johansson, 2019, Caliskan et al., 2021). Using the three profiles, we test our hypotheses using multivariate regression analyses. In doing so, our analysis goes beyond the limited body of research on rhetorical IM in SR, which predominantly relies on qualitative methodologies with a small sample size.

Our findings document that CEOs in more visible industries show a lower propensity to use assertive rhetorical IM refraining from outward-facing and authoritative communication. These companies tend to use more formal-analytical language in CEO letters. It reflects a risk-averse and personally detached CEO stance, aimed at maintaining legitimacy under greater scrutiny and governance pressure by fostering an aura of accountability and objectivity. This would imply that general visibility is not a motivator for explicit IM but rather acts as a constraint. However, when companies in sensitive industries are faced with company-specific sustainability challenges, CEOs step in to actively explain or contextualize the issues in a reactive manner to repair/restore threatened legitimacy. Our results suggest that the CEO's

3