# 1. Introduction

Sustainability reporting (SR)¹ is used as a communication tool providing information on companies’ sustainability-related activities to address the societal call for sustainable business and to build, enhance or repair organizational legitimacy. As the demand for transparency and accountability regarding corporate sustainability has been increasing among stakeholders, SR has become a standard corporate practice. Many studies, however, have demonstrated false claims, unmet promises or omitted performance outcomes in SR, which cause concerns that organizations “talk but do not walk the sustainability”. Consequently, the credibility and the quality of sustainability-related disclosures are often debated in the interdisciplinary accounting literature, suggesting that SR is prone to impression management (IM) strategies. While the literature offers extensive empirical evidence of IM in SR, its antecedents are not fully understood. In our study, we contribute to filling this research gap by focusing on linguistic style features of CEO narratives in SR as indicators of rhetorical IM.

Narrative sections in SR contain personalized messages and business tales, addressing key corporate events, achievements and future prospects as presented by the corporate leader (Fuoli, 2018). We explore corporate visibility as a driver and/or constraint of IM practices in CEO letters, in line with Leary and Kowalski (1990). Our investigation distinguishes between general (related to industry membership) and issue visibility (driven by sustainability controversies reflecting unethical and irresponsible business behavior), both of which hold particular relevance in sustainability research (Dawkins and Fraas, 2010). While several authors argue that increased visibility and related scrutiny, make companies less prone to IM (e.g., Marquis et al., 2016), others suggest that companies with higher environmental exposure and institutional pressure - and consequently, greater public visibility - are more inclined to engage in IM practices to legitimize their environmentally unfriendly operations (e.g., Stacchezzini et al., 2016). We address these contradictions in the literature in three ways.

First, drawing upon legitimacy theory, we argue that general and issue visibility relate to different legitimacy-related motives, i.e., maintaining legitimacy versus repairing legitimacy, which promote distinct IM strategies to match legitimacy-related requirements. The level of scrutiny for overt IM is clearly higher for companies operating in sustainability-sensitive industries² (hereafter referred to as sensitive industries), where the institutional environment is characterized by stringent regulations and governance structures due to their higher business exposure (Aerts and Cormier, 2009). For companies operating in sensitive industries, using formal and analytical language strategically in concert with institutionalized reporting formats and avoiding explicit self-serving IM are expected to foster perceived accountability and transparency and, thus, maintain legitimacy. Issue visibility driven by sustainability controversies, on the other hand, creates a gap between the desired and current image of companies through media and news and disrupts the legitimacy status-quo (Kuruppu et al., 2019). In such cases, managers are forced to respond to this disruption to repair damaged legitimacy by applying reactive IM strategies (Arvidsson, 2010). As the relationship between general visibility and the use of IM strategies is context-dependent and is likely to be affected

---

¹ In the literature, different terms have been used for SR, including corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting; social/environmental reporting; environmental, social and governance (ESG) reporting; corporate social disclosures, etc. In this paper, we systematically use “sustainability reporting”, following the inclusive definition of sustainability in the Brundtland Report (1987).

² Following prior literature (Garcia et al., 2017; Passetti et al., 2018), we define sustainability-sensitive industries as those having a major socio-environmental impact and being subject to social taboos, moral debates and political pressures. These industries include materials (chemicals, metals &amp; mining, forestry-paper &amp; wood products), electric utilities, and oil and gas producers.