Sustainability 2026, 18, 17

125. Liao, F.; Sun, Y.; Xu, S. Financial Report Comment Letters and Greenwashing in Environmental, Social and Governance Disclosures: Evidence from China. Energy Econ. 2023, 127, 107122. [CrossRef]
126. Liang, X.; Wu, H. Does the Tone in Corporate Social Responsibility Reports Misdirect Analysts' Forecasts in China? Sustainability 2022, 14, 16631. [CrossRef]
127. Hu, P.; Li, X.; Li, N.; Wang, Y.; Wang, D.D. Peeking into corporate greenwashing through the readability of ESG disclosures. Sustainability 2024, 16, 2571. [CrossRef]
128. Fabrizio, K.R.; Kim, E.-H. Reluctant Disclosure and Transparency: Evidence from Environmental Disclosures. Organ. Sci. 2019, 30, 1207-1231. [CrossRef]
129. Nazari, J.A.; Hrazdil, K.; Mahmoudian, F. Assessing social and environmental performance through narrative complexity in CSR reports. J. Contemp. Account. Econ. 2017, 13, 166-178. [CrossRef]
130. Nilipour, A.; De Silva, T.A.; Li, X. The readability of sustainability reporting in New Zealand over time. Australas. Account. Bus. Financ. J. 2020, 14, 86-107. [CrossRef]
131. Corciolani, M.; Nieri, F.; Tuan, A. Does involvement in corporate social irresponsibility affect the linguistic features of corporate social responsibility reports? Corp. Soc. Responsib. Environ. Manag. 2020, 27, 670-680. [CrossRef]
132. Pan, X.; Chen, X.; Sinha, P. Navigating the haze: Environmental performance feedback and CSR report readability. J. Bus. Res. 2023, 166, 114116. [CrossRef]
133. Hrasky, S. Visual disclosure strategies adopted by more and less sustainability-driven companies. Account. Forum 2012, 36, 154-165. [CrossRef]
134. Mobus, J.L. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) reporting by BP: Revealing or obscuring risks? J. Leg. Ethical Regul. Issues 2012, 15, 35-52.
135. Du, X. How the Market Values Greenwashing? Evidence from China. J. Bus. Ethics 2015, 128, 547-574. [CrossRef]
136. Contreras-Pacheco, O.E.; Claasen, C. Fuzzy reporting as a way for a company to greenwash: Perspectives from the Colombian reality. Probl. Perspect. Manag. 2017, 15, 525-535. [CrossRef]
137. Ates, S. The credibility of corporate social responsibility reports: Evidence from the energy sector in emerging markets. Soc. Responsib. J. 2023, 19, 756-773. [CrossRef]
138. Karaman, A.S.; Orazalin, N.; Uyar, A.; Shahbaz, M. CSR achievement, reporting, and assurance in the energy sector: Does economic development matter? Energy Policy 2021, 149, 112007. [CrossRef]
139. Koseoglu, M.A.; Uyar, A.; Kilic, M.; Kuzey, C.; Karaman, A.S. Exploring the connections among CSR performance, reporting, and external assurance: Evidence from the hospitality and tourism industry. Int. J. Hosp. Manag. 2021, 94, 102819. [CrossRef]
140. Mahoney, L.S.; Thorne, L.; Cecil, L.; LaGore, W. A research note on standalone corporate social responsibility reports: Signaling or greenwashing? Crit. Perspect. Account. 2013, 24, 350-359. [CrossRef]
141. Lewis, J.K. Corporate Social Responsibility/Sustainability Reporting Among the Fortune Global 250: Greenwashing or Green Supply Chain? Entrep. Bus. Econ. 2016, 1, 347-362. [CrossRef]
142. Zharfpeykan, R.; Akroyd, C. Evaluating the outcome effectiveness of the global reporting initiative transitions. Sustain. Account. Manag. Policy J. 2023, 14, 1101-1125. [CrossRef]
143. Reitmaier, C.; Schultze, W.; Vollmer, J. Corporate responsibility and corporate misbehavior: Are CSR reporting firms indeed responsible? Rev. Account. Stud. 2024, 30, 1804-1872. [CrossRef]

Disclaimer/Publisher's Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.

https://doi.org/10.3390/su18010017