Sustainability 2026, 18, 17

16. TerraChoice. The "Six Sins of Greenwashing TM" A Study of Environmental Claims in North American Consumer Markets; TerraChoice Environmental Marketing Inc.: Ottawa, ON, Canada, 2007. Available online: https://sustainability.usask.ca/documents/Six_Sins_of_Greenwashing_nov2007.pdf (accessed on 15 January 2025).
17. Merkl-Davies, D.M.; Brennan, N.M.; McLeay, S.J. Impression management and retrospective sense-making in corporate narratives: A social psychology perspective. Account. Audit. Account. J. 2011, 24, 315-344. [CrossRef]
18. TerraChoice. The Sins of Greenwashing, Home and Family Edition 2010: Report on Environmental Claims Made in the North American Consumer Market, 2010. Available online: https://www.twosides.info/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/Terrachoice_The_Sins_of_Greenwashing_-_Home_and_Family_Edition_2010.pdf (accessed on 15 January 2025).
19. Cliath, A.G. Seeing shades: Ecological and socially just labeling. Organ. Environ. 2007, 20, 413-439. [CrossRef]
20. Snyder, R. Misleading characteristics of implied-superiority claims. J. Advert. 1989, 18, 54-61. [CrossRef]
21. Capelle-Blancard, G.; Petit, A. Every little helps? ESG news and stock market reaction. J. Bus. Ethics 2019, 157, 543-565. [CrossRef]
22. Xia, F.; Chen, J.; Yang, X.; Li, X.; Zhang, B. Financial constraints and corporate greenwashing strategies in China. Corp. Soc. Resp. Environ. Manag. 2023, 30, 1770-1781. [CrossRef]
23. Lee, M.T.; Raschke, R.L. Stakeholder legitimacy in firm greening and financial performance: What about greenwashing temptations? J. Bus. Res. 2023, 155, 113393. [CrossRef]
24. Khalil, S.; O'Sullivan, P. Corporate social responsibility: Internet social and environmental reporting by banks. *Meditari Account. Res.* 2017, 25, 414-446. [CrossRef]
25. Wang, Z.; Hsieh, T.S.; Sarkis, J. CSR performance and the readability of CSR reports: Too good to be true? Corp. Soc. Responsib. Environ. Manag. 2018, 25, 66-79. [CrossRef]
26. Laskin, A.V.; Mikhailovna Nesova, N. The Language of Optimism in Corporate Sustainability Reports: A Computerized Content Analysis. Bus. Prof. Commun. Q. 2022, 85, 80-98. [CrossRef]
27. Blome, C.; Kai, F.; Schleper, M.C. Antecedents of green supplier championing and greenwashing: An empirical study on leadership and ethical incentives. J. Clean. Prod. 2017, 152, 339-350. [CrossRef]
28. Bernini, F.; Giuliani, M.; Rosa, F.L. Measuring greenwashing: A systematic methodological literature review. Bus. Ethics Environ. Responsib. 2024, 33, 649-667. [CrossRef]
29. Hummel, K.; Schlick, C. The relationship between sustainability performance and sustainability disclosure—Reconciling voluntary disclosure theory and legitimacy theory. J. Account. Public Policy 2016, 35, 455–476. [CrossRef]
30. Huq, A.M.; Carling, K. Measuring accountable information in CSR reports: A new operationalization and analysis applied to greenhouse gas disclosures. J. Emerg. Technol. Account. 2024, 21, 59-88. [CrossRef]
31. Li, J.; Wu, D.A. Do corporate social responsibility engagements lead to real environment, social, and governance impact? Manag. Sci. 2020, 66, 2564-2588. [CrossRef]
32. Bernini, F.; La Rosa, F. Research in the greenwashing field: Concepts, theories, and potential impacts on economic and social value. J. Manag. Gov. 2024, 28, 405-444. [CrossRef]
33. De Freitas Netto, S.V.; Sobral, M.F.F.; Ribeiro, A.R.B.; Soares, G.R.L. Concepts and forms of greenwashing: A systematic review. Environ. Sci. Eur. 2020, 32, 19. [CrossRef]
34. Gatti, L.; Seele, P.; Rademacher, L. Grey Zone in—Greenwash Out. A Review of Greenwashing Research and Implications for the Voluntary-Mandatory Transition of CSR. Int. J. Corp. Soc. Responsib. 2019, 4, 6. [CrossRef]
35. Liu, Y.; Li, W.; Wang, L.; Meng, Q. Why greenwashing occurs and what happens afterwards? A systematic literature review and future research agenda. *Environ. Sci. Pollut. Res.* 2023, 30, 118102-118116. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
36. Lyon, T.P.; Montgomery, A.W. The means and end of greenwashing. Organ. Environ. 2015, 28, 223-249. [CrossRef]
37. Montgomery, A.W.; Lyon, T.P.; Barg, J. No End in Sight? A Greenwash Review and Research Agenda. Organ. Environ. 2024, 37, 221-256. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
38. Santos, C.; Coelho, A.; Marques, A. A systematic literature review on greenwashing and its relationship to stakeholders: State of art and future research agenda. Manag. Rev. Q. 2024, 74, 1397-1421. [CrossRef]
39. Velte, P. Determinants and consequences of corporate social responsibility decoupling—Status quo and limitations of recent empirical quantitative research. Corp. Soc. Responsib. Environ. Manag. 2023, 30, 2695–2717. [CrossRef]
40. Cepeda, C.; Monteiro, A.P.; Aibar-Guzman, B. Decoupling in Sustainability Reporting: A Systematic Literature Review. Corp. Soc. Responsib. Environ. Manag. 2025, 32, 2988-3007. [CrossRef]
41. Sneideriene, A.; Legenzova, R. Greenwashing prevention in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) disclosures: A bibliometric analysis. Res. Int. Bus. Financ. 2025, 74, 102720. [CrossRef]
42. Sundarasen, S.; Zyznarska-Dworczak, B.; Goel, S. Sustainability reporting and greenwashing: A bibliometrics assessment in G7 and non-G7 nations. Cogent Bus. Manag. 2024, 11, 2320812. [CrossRef]
43. Zioło, M.; Bak, I.; Spoz, A. Literature review of greenwashing research: State of the art. Corp. Soc. Responsib. Environ. Manag. 2024, 31, 5343-5356. [CrossRef]

https://doi.org/10.3390/su18010017