J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526

Table 10. OLS Regression of the Refinitiv ESG score on the subcomponents.

|  Variable | Coefficient (Standard Error)  |
| --- | --- |
|  Constant | 12.02475 *** (0.566053)  |
|  Community | 0.010648 *** (0.004055)  |
|  Controversies | -0.015143 *** (0.005809)  |
|  CSRStrategy | 0.338770 *** (0.004169)  |
|  Emissions | 0.001737 (0.005501)  |
|  EnvInnovation | 0.018980 *** (0.004848)  |
|  Human Rights | 0.026302 *** (0.004295)  |
|  Management | 0.269564 *** (0.003882)  |
|  Product Resp | 0.021278 *** (0.004613)  |
|  ResourceUse | 0.014846 ** (0.006373)  |
|  Shareholders | 0.066404 *** (0.003667)  |
|  Workforce | 0.012507 ** (0.004966)  |
|  Adj. R² | 0.628793  |

ESG is the Refinitiv ESG score. The independent variables are the subcomponents used to determine the Refinitv ESGG score. Standard errors are in parentheses. *, **, and ** signify significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively.

Table 11. Granger causality tests between the greenwash, ESG, and CSRStrategy scores.

|  Hypothesis | F-Statistic | Prob.  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  CSRStrategy does not Granger-cause ESG | 7.71041 | 0.0005  |
|  ESG does not Granger-cause CSRStrategy | 85.4429 | 1 × 10-37  |
|  Greenwash does not Granger-cause ESG | 2.05508 | 0.1282  |
|  ESG does not Granger-cause Greenwash | 3.34659 | 0.0353  |
|  Greenwash does not Granger-cause CSRStrategy | 5.18517 | 0.0056  |
|  CSRStrategy does not Granger-cause Greenwash | 7.34646 | 0.0007  |

Granger causality test results using the methodology of Lopez and Weber (2017).

As can be seen, in developed markets, ESG activities are associated with lower costs of capital and thus lower systematic risks. Greenwashing, in general, has no effect on systematic risks. ESG positively affects greater free cash flow to the firm. In emerging markets, both ESG and greenwashing are associated with a lower after-tax cost of debt, but only greenwashing is associated with a lower weighted cost of capital. Thus, it may be the case that in emerging markets, greenwashing firms are better able to take advantage of lower-cost debt and use a greater amount of debt in their capital structure to lower their overall cost of debt. This is somewhat held up by the group means of the debt-to-capital variable, for which the mean is 0.251 for developed market firms and 0.279 for emerging market firms. Further, it is only for emerging market firms that ESG activities positively influence Tobin's Q, showing that ESG activities add value to the firm.