Journal of Risk and Financial Management

MDPI

Article

# How Greenwashing Affects Firm Risk: An International Perspective

Richard Paul Gregory

Department of Economics and Finance, College of Business and Technology, East Tennessee State University, 1276 Gilbreath Dr, Johnson City, TN 37614, USA; gregoryr@etsu.edu

Abstract: The effects of greenwashing as a corporate strategy on firm risk are not well defined. I construct a greenwashing measure for 3973 companies from 70 countries from 2012 to 2022. Using Dynamic Panel Modeling, I find results suggesting that greenwashing is a complex phenomenon with both positive and negative consequences. While it can improve a firm's public image and potentially enhance its financial performance, it may also lead to increased risk and misallocation of resources. Greenwashing firms have a lower weighted average cost of capital due to a higher debt-to-capital ratio. They are larger, have higher institutional ownership, and lower dividend yields. On the other hand, greenwashing firms have more ESG-related controversies that can hurt firm revenues and market value, they have higher unsystematic risk, and they have lower dividend yields and return on equity. I also find evidence that there is a feedback relationship between ESG ratings and greenwashing. There is no evidence that government mandates on ESG reporting inhibit greenwashing. The implication is that ESG scoring that emphasizes reporting ESG activities while informing investors also encourages greenwashing.

Keywords: greenwashing; systematic risk; unsystematic risk; ESG; resource allocation

check for updates

Citation: Gregory, Richard Paul. 2024. How Greenwashing Affects Firm Risk: An International Perspective. Journal of Risk and Financial Management 17: 526. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm17110526

Academic Editor: Thanasis Stengos

Received: 10 October 2024

Revised: 8 November 2024

Accepted: 11 November 2024

Published: 20 November 2024

Copyright: © 2024 by the author. Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

# 1. Introduction

A 2022 Harris Poll, surveying 1491 executives, revealed that a striking 80% rated their organizations' environmental initiatives as above average. However, 58% conceded that green hypocrisy is prevalent, acknowledging that their companies have exaggerated their sustainability efforts (Google Cloud 2022).

The term greenwashing was first used by environmentalist Jay Westervelt in a 1986 essay promoting towel reuse in the hospitality industry (Pearson 2010; Wolniak and Håbek 2015; Guo et al. 2018). There is no generally accepted definition of the term greenwashing. The concept remains ambiguous (Seele and Gatti 2017).

Many researchers (Ramus and Montiel 2005; Gillespie 2008; Stamoulakis and Bridwell 2009; Vos 2009; Furlow 2010; Mitchell and Ramey 2011) use the Oxford English Dictionary definition: "disinformation disseminated by an organization so as to present an environmentally responsible public image". Others use the definition of the organization Greenpeace: "the act of misleading consumers regarding the environmental practices of a company or the environmental benefits of a product or service" (Fliegelman 2009; Parguel et al. 2009, 2011; Gallicano 2011; Delmas and Cuerel Burbano 2011; Chen and Chang 2013).

de Freitas Netto et al. (2020) identify types of greenwashing based on a systemic review from 2010 to 2020. Selective disclosure is when firms do not disclose negative environmental information and promote positive information. Decoupling behavior is when the firm uses symbolic actions to deflect attention to minor issues or issues it can control. The signaling of corporate pragmatic legitimacy is when corporations signal that they are meeting environmental goals they have failed to meet.

In this paper, I adopt a view where the level of effort of a firm in advertising and reporting its ESG activities is at variance with its level of effort in actual ESG activities as

J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526. https://doi.org/10.3390/jrfm17110526

https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jrfm