to a lower cost of equity (*Ng and Rezaee (2015)*). I obtain similar results here controlling for greenwashing.

I do not find that greenwashing in and of itself affects the cost of capital except in emerging markets. Greenwashing firms may obtain a lower cost of debt due to higher ESG scores, and they take advantage of this by using more debt to lower their overall weighted average cost of capital. However, greenwashing is found to increase the firm’s idiosyncratic or firm-specific risk.

However, this higher use of debt of course could mean that firms with higher greenwashing scores are more subject to financial constraints. *Zhang (2023)* argues that financial constraints motivate pollution-heavy firms to decrease their product quality. This promotes greenwashing. However, as noted above, the higher ESG scores that may be obtained via greenwashing can lead to lower costs of debt, thus encouraging the use of debt. The chain of causality here is not clear. The results argue that debt use has no significant effect on greenwashing, as the coefficient is insignificant at conventional levels. Thus, it seems more likely that greenwashing precedes high debt use. However, more work is required on this subject.

Operationally, greenwashing is associated with a lower return on equity. The results all uniformly exhibit a negative relation between greenwashing and the return on equity, though insignificantly for brownwashing firms. This follows previous results on the return on assets by *Walker and Wan (2012)*. This is in contrast to the work of *Li et al. (2023)*, who found a positive relationship between greenwashing and roa. This would also go along with the research of *Newell et al. (1998)*, *Chen and Chang (2013)*, *Nyilasy et al. (2014)*, *Chen et al. (2014)*, *Rahman et al. (2015)*, *Aji and Sutikno (2015)*, *Akturan (2018)*, *Schmuck et al. (2018)*, *Wang et al. (2019)*, *Nguyen et al. (2019)*, and *Szabo and Webster (2021)*. They all provide evidence of how greenwashing behaviors can harm consumer attitudes, which affect purchasing behaviors. This effect on purchasing behaviors affects the level and volatility of firm revenues, which affect the return on equity.

However, as the results also show, greenwashing has a mixed relationship with free cash flow to the firm. For greenwashing firms, greenwashing activity is associated with higher free cash flow to the firm, while for brownwashing firms, it is associated with lower free cash flow. The differences between return on equity and free cash flow to the firm principally lie in that free cash flow to the firm includes depreciation expenses and changes in net working capital. If the firm does not reinvest to allow for the depreciation of assets and borrows through net working capital to pay cash to investors, it will have a higher free cash flow. This implies that firms that indulge in heavier greenwashing are making up for the effects of greenwashing on the return on equity by short-term cash flows to creditors and shareholders through less reinvestment to the firm. The effects found here for the Greenwash variables are similar to what *Gregory (2022)* finds for the ESG score on free cash flow to the firm.

This brings into question whether *Gregory (2022)* was actually measuring the effects of greenwashing or whether I here am measuring the effects of the ESG variable. I have attempted to guard against this by regressing the Greenwash variable against the ESG score and using the orthogonalized residual. I have also used dummy variables with low correlations with the ESG score.

Of course, the question is why is greenwashing associated with a declining roe and an increasing free cash flow for firms that make heavy use of greenwashing strategies? By definition, the only connection between free cash flow and row is that both contain net income. Free cash flow to the firm contains earnings before taxes and interest, depreciation, capital expenditures, and changes to net operating working capital. Table 4 shows that firms making greater use of greenwashing have lower average fcff than firms making less use of greenwashing, while their roe is on average higher. Part of this is explained by the fact that the average capital expenditure value for firms that make greater use of greenwashing is much higher, as is shown in Table 4. So there may be an association between greenwashing and net capital expenditures.