The Greenwash variable exhibits a positive and significant coefficient on Tobin's Q variable. This implies that high greenwashing firms are associated with a higher long-term value. This is in contrast with previously reported work by Ghitti et al. (2020). They found a negative relationship between their greenwashing variable and their estimate of Tobin's Q. One possible explanation is the difference in the estimate of Tobin's Q. Ghitti et al. use only the market value of debt and equity divided by the book value of debt and equity. I use the methodology of Peters and Taylor (2017), which adjusts for the value of firm intangible assets.

The ESG score is negative and significant for the cost of debt and the cost of equity. The cost of debt result is similar to the results of Raimo et al. (2021), Eliwa et al. (2021), and Apergis et al. (2022). The cost of equity result expands upon the results of Ng and Rezaee (2015) who also find that ESG scores have a negative relationship with the cost of equity estimates.

Interestingly, for firms using a high greenwashing strategy, there is a negative relationship between institutional ownership and Tobin's Q. Buchanan et al. (2018) find a strong positive relationship between institutional ownership and Tobin's Q, for example. Their hypothesis is that firms with higher institutional ownership monitor firms and prevent them from over-investing in ESG-related activities and thus make them less prone to certain risks. The results here complicate such an interpretation. While greenwashing firms might be “underinvesting” in ESG activities, it is difficult to understand why monitoring by institutional investors would then result in a drag on Tobin's Q.

The Greenwash variable is positive and significant for the coe2 variable. This signifies that brownwashing leads to a higher cost of equity capital. The Greenwash variable is negative and significant for the fcff variable, in contrast to the findings for the Greenwash75% data. This is similar to brownwashing having a negative effect on fcff. Brownwashing firms have Refinitiv Emissions and ResourceUse scores higher than CSRStrategy scores in their makeup. Gregory (2022) finds a generally negative relation between Emissions and ResourceUse and fcff. This also supports the results of Kim and Lyon (2015) and Testa et al. (2018a).

Gregory (2022) also finds a positive and significant relationship between Refinitiv ESG scores and fcff, as is found here in Table 8. Table 8 exhibits a positive and significant coefficient on ESG for Tobin's Q in contrast to the findings of Shi et al. (2015) but similar to the findings of Surroca et al. (2010), Sharma and Thukral (2016), Kim et al. (2019), and Kurt and Peng (2021). Further, the ESG score is negative and significantly related to the cost of debt, as with the previous results.

As a further robustness test, I regress the dependent variables on the Greenwash score and the squared Greenwash score. I use the squared score to help capture any non-linearities in the relationship as the results of Table 9 indicate there may be sign changes in regards to the Greenwash score with some of the dependent variables. The results are exhibited in Table 9.

The Greenwash score is only significant and negative for the roe dependent variable. This is in agreement with the previous results for the Greenwash75% variable. The overall effect of a rise in the Greenwash variable would be to increase the roe.

ESG is found to be negative and significant for cod and coe1, similar to the results in Table 8. ESG is found to have a positive and significant coefficient for Tobin's Q, similar to the results in Table 9. Also, here, I regress the standard deviation of the firm's stock returns on the independent variables as a measure of undiversified risk. The coefficient is positive and significant at the 5% level. This signifies that greenwashing increases undiversified risk.

The results above indicate that ESG scores have a positive effect on greenwashing. An examination of the relationship between the subcomponents of the ESG score and the ESG score from Refinitiv is examined below in Table 10 from an OLS Regression. Refinitiv does not publish the exact methodology used in combining the subcomponents into the ESG score (Refinitiv 2022).