J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526

Cherry, Miriam A., and Judd F. Sneirson. 2010. Beyond profit: Rethinking corporate social responsibility and greenwashing after the BP oil disaster. Tulane Law Review 85: 983. [CrossRef]
Collins, Denton, and Henry Huang. 2011. Management entrenchment and the cost of equity capital. Journal of Business Research 64: 356-62. [CrossRef]
Davenport, Coral, and Jack Ewing. 2015. VW is said to cheat on diesel emissions; US to order big recall. The New York Times. September 18. Available online: https://www.nytimes.com/2015/09/21/business/international/volkswagen-chief-apologizes-for-breach-of-trust-after-recall. (accessed on 8 September 2022).
de Freitas Netto, Sebastião Vieira, Marcos Felipe Falcao Sobral, Ana Regina Bezerra Ribeiro, and Gleibson Robert da Luz Soares. 2020. Concepts and forms of greenwashing: A systematic review. *Environmental Sciences Europe* 32: 19. [CrossRef]
Delmas, Magali A., and Vanessa Cuerel Burbano. 2011. The drivers of greenwashing. California Management Review 54: 64-87. [CrossRef]
Dhaliwal, Dan, Shane Heitzman, and Oliver Zhen Li. 2006. Taxes, leverage, and the cost of equity capital. Journal of Accounting Research 44: 691-723. [CrossRef]
Du, Xingqiang. 2015. How the market values greenwashing? Evidence from China. Journal of Business Ethics 128: 547-74. [CrossRef]
El Ghoul, S., Omrane Guedhami, Chuck C. Y. Kwok, and Dev R. Mishra. 2011. Does corporate social responsibility affect the cost of capital? Journal of Banking &amp; Finance 35: 2388-406.
Eliwa, Yasser, Ahmed Aboud, and Ahmed Saleh. 2021. ESG practices and the cost of debt: Evidence from EU countries. Critical Perspectives on Accounting 79: 102097. [CrossRef]
Ferrón-Vilchez, Vera, Jesus Valero-Gil, and Inés Suárez-Perales. 2021. How does greenwashing influence managers' decision-making? An experimental approach under stakeholder view. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management 28: 860-80. [CrossRef]
Fliegelman, Jessica E. 2009. The next generation of greenwash: Diminishing consumer confusion through a national eco-labeling program. *Fordham Urban Law Journal* 37: 1001-56.
Furlow, Nancy E. 2010. Greenwashing in the new millennium. Journal of Applied Business and Economics 10: 22-25.
Gallicano, Tiffany Derville. 2011. A critical analysis of greenwashing claims. *Public Relations Journal* 5: 1-21.
García-Sánchez, Isabel-María, Nazim Hussain, Cristina Aibar-Guzmán, and Beatrix Aibar-Guzmán. 2022. Assurance of corporate social responsibility reports: Does it reduce decoupling practices? Business Ethics, the Environment &amp; Responsibility 31: 118-38.
Gatti, Lucia, Peter Seele, and Lars Rademacher. 2019. Grey zone in-greenwash out. A review of greenwashing research and implications for the voluntary-mandatory transition of CSR. International Journal of Corporate Social Responsibility 4: 1-15. [CrossRef]
Gebhardt, William R., Charles MC Lee, and Bhaskaran Swaminathan. 2001. Toward an implied cost of capital. Journal of Accounting Research 39: 135-76. [CrossRef]
Ghitti, Marco, Gianfranco Gianfrate, and Lorenza Palma. 2020. The Agency of Greenwashing. SSRN Electronic Journal. [CrossRef]
Gillespie, Ed. 2008. Stemming the tide of 'greenwash'. *Consumer Policy Review* 18: 79-83.
Google Cloud. 2022. Report: What It Will Take for CEOs to Fund a Sustainable Transformation? Available online: https://cloud.google.com/blog/topics/sustainability/new-survey-reveals-executives-views-about-sustainability (accessed on 14 September 2022).
Greer, Jed, and Kenny Bruno. 1996. Greenwash: The Reality Behind Corporate Environmentalism. Penang: Third World Network.
Gregory, Richard Paul. 2022. ESG activities and firm cash flow. Global Finance Journal 52: 100698. [CrossRef]
Gregory, Richard Paul. 2023. When is greenwashing an easy fix? Journal of Sustainable Finance &amp; Investment 13: 919-42.
Griliches, Zvi, and Jerry A. Hausman. 1986. Errors in variables in panel data. Journal of Econometrics 31: 93-118. [CrossRef]
Guo, Rui, Wei Zhang, Tao Wang, Caroline Bingxin Li, and Lan Tao. 2018. Timely or considered? Brand trust repair strategies and mechanism after greenwashing in China—From a legitimacy perspective. Industrial Marketing Management 72: 127-37. [CrossRef]
Hail, Luzi, and Christian Leuz. 2006. International differences in the cost of equity capital: Do legal institutions and securities regulation matter? Journal of Accounting Research 44: 485-531. [CrossRef]
Hu, Xinwen, Renhai Hua, Qingfu Liu, and Chuanjie Wang. 2023. The green fog: Environmental rating disagreement and corporate greenwashing. Pacific-Basin Finance Journal 78: 101952. [CrossRef]
Huang, Hongfu, Xinjie Xing, Yong He, and Xiaoyu Gu. 2020. Combating greenwashers in emerging markets: A game-theoretical exploration of firms, customers and government regulations. Transportation Research Part E: Logistics and Transportation Review 140: 101976. [CrossRef]
Kangun, Norman, Les Carlson, and Stephen J. Grove. 1991. Environmental advertising claims: A preliminary investigation. Journal of Public Policy &amp; Marketing 10: 47-58.
Kärnä, Jari, Heikki Juslin, Virpi Ahonen, and Eric Hansen. 2001. Green advertising: Greenwash or a true reflection of marketing strategies? Greener Management International 33: 59-70. [CrossRef]
Kim, Eun-Hee, and Thomas P. Lyon. 2015. Greenwash vs. brownwash: Exaggeration and undue modesty in corporate sustainability disclosure. Organization Science 26: 705-23. [CrossRef]
Kim, Jintae, Kangho Cho, and Cheong K. Park. 2019. Does CSR assurance affect the relationship between CSR performance and financial performance? Sustainability 11: 5682. [CrossRef]
Kurt, Hakan, and Xuhui Peng. 2021. Does corporate social performance lead to better financial performance? Evidence from Turkey. Green Finance 3: 464-83. [CrossRef]
Lafer, William S. 2003. Social accountability and corporate greenwashing. Journal of Business Ethics 43: 253-61. [CrossRef]