J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526

Table 6. Panel Granger causality tests.

|  Null Hypothesis | F-Statistic | Probability  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  Greenwash does not cause ESG | 2.05508 | 0.1282  |
|  ESG does not cause greenwash | 3.34659 | 0.0353  |
|  Greenwash%75 does not cause ESG | 2.24768 | 0.1057  |
|  ESG does not cause Greenwash75% | 2.34360 | 0.0960  |
|  Greenwash25% does not cause ESG | 1.99047 | 0.1367  |
|  ESG does not cause Greenwash25% | 20.2932 | 2 × 10-9  |

Granger causality test results using the methodology of Lopez and Weber (2017).

# 3.2. Main Methodology

There are three problems with the Greenwash variable that must be addressed. The first problem is endogeneity. The data underlying the ESG data are produced within the firm and are thus endogenous to it; therefore, we have to treat the associated Greenwash scores as endogenous variables also. Fortunately, this problem can be overcome with GMM estimation using instrumental variables.

The second problem, as noted in the introduction, is that the Greenwash variable has a noise component that is not traditionally dealt with in the literature. In applying GMM to the observed variables, the estimates are likely to be biased by the correlation of the ESG variables with the left-out individual effects and because of the negative correlation between the observed ESG variables and the disturbance term (Griliches and Hausman 1986). To overcome this, I use an EIV-type GMM estimator proposed by Griliches and Hausman (1986). In both instances, I control for industry, year, and country effects.

To illustrate the estimator employed, consider a simple model where the Greenwash score  $= x$  and the dependent variable  $= y$ . Ideally, we would like to measure the true Greenwash score  $z$ , but we cannot because some of the information has been imputed, so we are left with  $x$ . Ideally, I would like to regress as follows:

$$
y _ {i t} = \alpha_ {i} + \beta z _ {i t} + \eta_ {i t} \tag {1}
$$

But due to the imputation of data, I observe the following:

$$
x _ {i t} = z _ {i t} + v _ {i t} \tag {2}
$$

where  $v_{it}$  is a noise term i.i.d. with variance  $\sigma_v^2$ . If I apply unadjusted estimators to  $y$  on  $x$ , I get the following:

$$
y _ {i t} = \underline {{\alpha}} + \beta x _ {i t} - \beta v _ {i t} + \eta_ {i t} + (\alpha_ {i} - \underline {{\alpha}}) \tag {3}
$$

Panel data estimation can help eliminate some of the bias by differencing and going within by looking at the plims of the two estimators as follows:

$$
\operatorname {p l i m b} _ {d} = \beta \left(1 - \frac {2 \sigma_ {v} ^ {2}}{\operatorname {v a r} (d x)}\right) \tag {4}
$$

$$
\operatorname {p l i m b} _ {w} = \beta \left(1 - \frac {T - 1}{T} \frac {\sigma_ {v} ^ {2}}{\operatorname {v a r} (\widetilde {x})}\right) \tag {5}
$$

where  $dx = x_{it} - x_{it-1}$  and  $\widetilde{x} = x_{it} - \underline{x}$ , and similarly for other variables. Griliches and Hausman (1986) then note with computation of (4) and (5) that the investigator has the necessary ingredients to solve for the unknown  $\sigma_v^2$  and  $\beta$  as follows:

$$
\beta = \left[ \frac {2 b _ {w}}{v a r (d x)} - (T - 1) b _ {d} / T v a r (\widetilde {x}) \right] / \left[ \frac {2}{v a r (d x)} - (T - 1) / T v a r (\widetilde {x}) \right] \tag {6}
$$