J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526

Refinitiv. 2022. Environmental, Social and Governance Scores From Refinitiv May 2022. Available online: https://www.refinitiv.com/content/dam/marketing/en_us/documents/methodology/refinitiv-esg-scores-methodology.pdf (accessed on 9 September 2022).
Ruiz-Blanco, Silvia, Silvia Romero, and Belen Fernandez-Feijoo. 2022. Green, blue or black, but washing-What company characteristics determine greenwashing? Environment, Development and Sustainability 24: 4024-45. [CrossRef]
Saad, Mohsen, and Anis Samet. 2017. Liquidity and the implied cost of equity capital. Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money 51: 15-38. [CrossRef]
Schmuck, Desirée, Jörg Matthes, and Brigitte Naderer. 2018. Misleading consumers with green advertising? An affect-reason-involvement account of greenwashing effects in environmental advertising. Journal of Advertising 47: 127-45. [CrossRef]
Seele, Peter, and Lucia Gatti. 2017. Greenwashing revisited: In search of a typology and accusation-based definition incorporating legitimacy strategies. Business Strategy and the Environment 26: 239-52. [CrossRef]
Sharma, Dipasha, and Ms Shagun Thukral. 2016. Do social, environmental and governance concerns reward value to firms? An investigation of BSE-500 listed firms. Journal of Economics and Finance 3: 23-28.
Shi, Wei, Kevin Veenstra, and M. Lee-Chin. 2015. The moderating effect of cultural values on the relationship between corporate social performance and corporate financial performance. Journal of Business Ethics 174: 89-107. [CrossRef]
Stamoulakis, Dimitrios, and Lawrence Bridwell. 2009. BMW's approach to global warming and environmental management: Corporate social responsibility or greenwashing? Competition Forum 7: 98-106.
Sun, Ziyuan, and Weiwei Zhang. 2019. Do government regulations prevent greenwashing? An evolutionary game analysis of heterogeneous enterprises. Journal of Cleaner Production 231: 1489-502. [CrossRef]
Surroca, Jordi, Josep A. Tribó, and Sandra Waddock. 2010. Corporate responsibility and financial performance: The role of intangible resources. Strategic Management Journal 31: 463-90. [CrossRef]
Szabo, Szerena, and Jane Webster. 2021. Perceived greenwashing: The effects of green marketing on environmental and product perceptions. Journal of Business Ethics 171: 719-39. [CrossRef]
Testa, Francesco, Ivan Miroshnychenko, Roberto Barontini, and Marco Frey. 2018a. Does it pay to be a greenwasher or a brownwasher? Business Strategy and the Environment 27: 1104-16. [CrossRef]
Testa, Francesco, Olivier Boiral, and Fabio Iraldo. 2018b. Internalization of environmental practices and institutional complexity: Can stakeholders pressures encourage greenwashing? Journal of Business Ethics 147: 287-307. [CrossRef]
Thompson Reuters Eikon. 2017. Thomson Reuters ESG Scores. Available online: https://www.esade.edu/itemsweb/biblioteca/bbdd/inbbdd/archivos/Thomson_Reuters_ESG_Scores.pdf (accessed on 28 August 2021).
Vos, Jacob. 2009. Actions speak louder than words: Greenwashing in corporate America. Notre Dame Journal of Law, Ethics and Public Policy 23: 673-97.
Walker, Kent, and Fang Wan. 2012. The harm of symbolic actions and green-washing: Corporate actions and communications on environmental performance and their financial implications. Journal of Business Ethics 109: 227-42. [CrossRef]
Wang, Hong, Baolong Ma, and Rubing Bai. 2019. The spillover effect of greenwashing behaviours: An experimental approach. Marketing Intelligence &amp; Planning 38: 283-95.
Wolniak, Radosław, and Patrycja Håbek. 2015. Reporting process of corporate social responsibility and greenwashing. Paper presented at the 15th International Multidisciplinary Scientific Geoconference SGEM2015, Albena, Bulgaria, June 18-24. Volume 3: Ecology, Economics, Education and Legislation.
Wu, Meng-Wen, and Chung-Hua Shen. 2013. Corporate social responsibility in the banking industry: Motives and financial performance. Journal of Banking &amp; Finance 37: 3529-47.
Yu, Ellen Pei-yi, Bac Van Luu, and Catherine Huirong Chen. 2020. Greenwashing in environmental, social and governance disclosures. Research in International Business and Finance 52: 101192. [CrossRef]
Zhang, Dongyang. 2022a. Are firms motivated to greenwash by financial constraints? Evidence from global firms' data. Journal of International Financial Management &amp; Accounting 33: 459-79.
Zhang, Dongyang. 2022b. Environmental regulation and firm product quality improvement: How does the greenwashing response? International Review of Financial Analysis 80: 102058. [CrossRef]
Zhang, Dongyang. 2023. Subsidy expiration and greenwashing decision: Is there a role of bankruptcy risk? Energy Economics 118: 106530. [CrossRef]

Disclaimer/Publisher's Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.