J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526

Lyon and Maxwell (2011) consider a theoretical model of a firm's disclosure of environmental information under an environmental auditing firm. They find that while auditing inhibits greenwashing, it also inhibits the firm from reporting some relevant environmental information.

Examining the greenwashing of firms in 46 countries, Marquis and Toffel (2011) find that smaller firms are more likely to greenwash. They also find that more visible firms—those that were larger and did greater environmental damage—were especially less likely to practice selective disclosure in institutional contexts where the government and civil society were more connected to globalization. They find evidence that the global environmental movement is affecting corporate practices.

Marquis and Toffel (2012) examine the characteristics that make firms choose to greenwash. They find that firms elect to do selective disclosure of environmental information when they are large companies but less so when they have a large environmental impact.

Wu and Shen (2013) conducted a study of 162 banks in 22 countries. They identify three motives for banks participating in CSR activities. These are strategic choice, altruism, and greenwashing. They find a positive relationship between CSR and various measures of financial performance. This relationship was nonexistent for banks greenwashing their activities while making no substantive changes.

Lyon and Montgomery (2013) theorize that the use of social media by external stakeholders decreases the use of greenwashing.

Lyon and Montgomery (2015) perform a review of the literature on greenwashing. They define greenwashing as misleading communication. They detail eleven varieties of misleading communication. They also list twelve drivers of greenwashing. They note that the literature is limited on the effects of greenwashing. The effects tend to point to the effects being negative on the firm's financial and market brand.

Marquis et al. (2016) explore when firms are going to engage in selective disclosure. Firms selectively disclose less when they are firms that damage the environment more, especially when they are in countries that have stronger protections for property rights.

Berrone et al. (2017) investigate sources of differences in the impacts of environmental actions. They find environmental actions increase environmental legitimacy. Some actions decrease legitimacy if environmental performance deteriorates. Intense scrutiny from nongovernmental organizations can lead to decreased legitimacy.

Seele and Gatti (2017) find that existing definitions of greenwashing place too much emphasis on misleading. Existing definitions do not incorporate unjust allegations. They propose a revised definition of greenwashing. Greenwashing is the co-creation of an external accusation toward an organization with regard to presenting a misleading green message.

Testa et al. (2018b) explore the influence of institutional pressures on environmental practices. Pressure from suppliers and shareholders contributes to corporate greening. Pressure from customers and industrial associations tends to encourage greenwashing.

de Freitas Netto et al. (2020) conducted a systematic review of the literature to define greenwashing and find its characteristics and forms. In general, there are two competing definitions of greenwashing. First, there is greenwashing as selective disclosure, where firms have poor environmental performance and positive environmental communications. Second, there is greenwashing as decoupling, where corporations make statements to satisfy stakeholders in terms of sustainability but without concrete action. In terms of forms, there are two identified. There is the claim of greenwashing where the company claims a product or brand that is created to make a misleading environmental claim. There is also executional greenwashing, where the company suggests nature-evoking elements in its advertising to suggest that its products or brands are environmentally friendly.

Arouri et al. (2021) demonstrate that heightened competition in product markets serves to curtail the practice of greenwashing.

Nishitani et al. (2021) investigate whether corporate environmental activities to meet UN sustainable development goals amongst Vietnamese firms are a form of greenwashing.