CSRStrategy, which represents a score assessing how well a company integrates economic, social, and environmental considerations into its daily decision-making, has the most significant influence on a firm's ESG score. Given that greenwashing can be partially defined as the selective communication of social and economic dimensions that lack substantiation through actual performance, this raises the potential for a feedback loop between greenwashing practices and ESG scoring as assessed by ESG rating firms. If, as shown in Table 10, ESG rating firms assign greater weight to the environmental and social communications of firms without accounting for the possibility of greenwashing, this could create a feedback loop. Consequently, firms engaging in greenwashing may feel incentivized to amplify their greenwashing efforts to achieve higher ESG ratings.

There is evidence suggesting that Greenwash Granger influences the CSRStrategy of the firm, which in turn affects ESG, as indicated by the findings in Table 11 and supported by *Refinitiv (2022)*. Furthermore, it appears that ESG Granger influences greenwashing. This suggests a weak feedback loop between greenwashing and ESG rating scores. Consequently, it may be interpreted that greenwashing behavior is not significantly penalized in the Refinitiv ESG scores.

Further, the findings suggest that the reward from greenwashing comes in part from enhanced ESG scores; as for greenwashing firms, higher ESG scores are associated with lower costs of debt and equity. However, this lower cost of equity and debt for greenwashing firms leads to a slightly higher use of debt in financing for greenwashing firms and a lower average free cash flow to the firm as the greenwashing firms make use of it for greater capital expenditures that do not seem to provide greater shareholder compensation on average.

In terms of long-term effects on the firm's risks, these results raise the issue that firms may become “addicted” to greenwashing as a means of enhancing financial performance by lowering their costs of capital through enhancing their ESG scores. However, this could be setting their shareholders and creditors up for large swings in the value of their holdings in the firms as seen in the case of Volkswagen's “Dieselgate” fiasco, which resulted in a major depreciation of Volkswagen stock price that lasted for several years. As *Gregory (2023)* demonstrates, such a heavy reliance on greenwashing as a strategy can lead to a large, difficult-to-detect source of idiosyncratic form of risk for shareholders and creditors. The greater likelihood that greenwashing is associated with the occurrence of future ESG-related controversies supports this hypothesis.

Comparing the results here with the results of *Li et al. (2023)* and *Gregory (2022)*, Li et al. find that greenwashing efforts are associated with improved return on equity, an effect that is moderated when local environmental regulations are high. Here, I find that generally, greenwashing has no effect on return on equity, with a negative effect for firms with the highest greenwashing scores. Why the difference?

*Li et al. (2023)* restrict themselves to a sample of winsorized Chinese firms. In Table 13, I also find a positive, but insignificant, coefficient from the Greenwash score on roe. As Li et al. note, the effect of greenwashing on roe for their set of Chinese firms is moderated by the level of environmental regulation and the local social attitudes. This would be much wider in my sample, and thus may explain why I did not find the same results. Secondly, I made a much stronger and more robust correction for endogeneity than they did in estimation.

*Gregory (2022)* finds that ESG scores have a positive effect on free cash flow to the firm, particularly for developed markets, which is similar to the results reported in Table 12 above.

## 6. Conclusions

Using ESG scores from Refinitiv, I construct a greenwashing measure for 3973 companies from 70 countries from 2012 to 2022. Amongst the major findings of this work are the following.

Greenwashing firms tend to be larger firms, with higher institutional ownership and are typically headquartered in countries with less political instability. Greenwashing is