$\sigma_{v}^{2}=\frac{(\beta-b_{d})var(dx)}{2\beta}$ (7)

The main relationships to be estimated are as follows:

First is $${Dependent}_{i,t}=\beta_{0}$ $+\beta_{1}BETA_{i,t}+\beta_{2}ERP_{i,t}+\beta_{3}PRS_{i,t}+\beta_{4}Market~{}Cap_{i,t}$ (8)
$+\beta_{5}Debt~{}to~{}Capital_{i,t}+\beta_{6}Liquidity_{i,t}+\beta_{7}SD_{i,t}+\beta_{8}MTB_{i,t}+$
$\beta_{9}Institution_{i,t}+\beta_{10}ESG_{i,t}+\beta_{11}Dependent_{i,t-1}+\varepsilon_{i,t}$

And second is $${Dependent}_{i,t}=\beta_{0}$ $+\beta_{1}BETA_{i,t}+\beta_{2}ERP_{i,t}+\beta_{3}PRS_{i,t}+\beta_{4}Market~{}Cap_{i,t}$ (9)
$+\beta_{5}Debt~{}to~{}Capital_{i,t}+\beta_{6}Liquidity_{i,t}+\beta_{7}SD_{i,t}+\beta_{8}MTB_{i,t}$
$+\beta_{9}Institution_{i,t}+\beta_{10}Community_{i,t}+\beta_{11}Controversies_{i,t}$
$+\beta_{12}CSRStrategy_{i,t}$
$+\beta_{13}Emissions_{i,t}+\beta_{14}EnvInnovation_{i,t}+\beta_{15}Human~{}Rights_{i,t}$
$+\beta_{16}Management_{i,t}+\beta_{17}ProductResp_{i,t}+\beta_{18}ResourceUse_{i,t}$
$+\beta_{19}Shareholders_{i,t}+\beta_{20}Workforce_{i,t}+\beta_{21}Dependent_{i,t-1}$
$+\varepsilon_{i,t}$

The instruments used are the lagged, differenced, and independent variables.

As can be seen, I follow the existing literature, using beta, market cap, debt to capital, and MTB as financial control variables on the cost of equity *(Hail and Leuz, 2006; Gebhardt et al., 2001; Dhaliwal et al., 2006; El Ghoul et al., 2011)*. Based on previous results, the beta, debt to capital, and MTB variables are expected to have positive coefficients as they add to firm risk. Market cap on the other hand is expected to have a negative coefficient. To this, I add liquidity as *Saad and Samet (2017)* find that liquidity risks affect the cost of capital, with more liquid stocks having a lower cost of capital. Intuitional ownership is included as *Collins and Huang (2011)* find that management entrenchment is associated with increases in the costs of equity capital, so I would expect the coefficient to be negative. The SD variable is included as a measure of unsystematic risk, so its coefficient is expected to be positive, and if markets are efficient, insignificant.

The signs on the ESG variables are not specified, as they are inconsistent in the prior literature, found to be both positive and negative, raising and lowering the cost of equity in emerging markets, which is part of what this research is about.

## 4 Results

Tables 7 and 8 present the estimation results for all firms from 2002 to 2022.

The estimation results of Table 7 show that the Greenwash variable is negative and insignificant for the costs of capital and its components and it is negative and significant for roe. This contradicts the findings of *Li et al. (2023)*, who found a positive relationship between greenwashing and roa. The difference may be that *Li et al. (2023)* study only researched Chinese firms or that firms that are more strongly greenwashing use more debt in financing their assets, which could decrease book assets in the roa variable, but might increase the free cash flow to the firm and Tobin's Q through the effects of the deb tax shield.

The Greenwash variable is positive and significant for the fcff variable. This indicates that higher levels of greenwashing lead to higher levels of cash flow within the firm. The juxtaposition between the results on roe and fcff seems strange. This calls for further exposition in the discussion section. *Gregory (2022)* finds a strong positive relationship between CSRStrategy scores and fcff. The CSRStrategy scores make up part of the Greenwash score that the Greenwash variable is based on.