J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526

Table 2. Greenwash  ${25}\%$  and Greenwash  ${75}\%$  firms by type of market.

|   | Greenwash25% | Greenwash75% Firms | Average Greenwash Score  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  Developed Markets | 79.30% | 80.12% | 1.1327  |
|  Emerging Markets | 20.70% | 19.88% | 1.1633  |
|  Total | 100.00% (993) | 100.00% (993) |   |

Table 2 presents the percentage of Greenwash  $25\%$  and Greenwash  $75\%$  firms by type of international financial market as defined by MSCI. Greenwash is the greenwashing variable constructed by dividing the demeaned Refinitiv CSRStrategy score by the arithmetic mean of the Refinitiv Emissions score and the ResourceUse score. Greenwash  $75\%$  is a dummy variable that takes on a value of 1 if the Greenwash variable is greater or equal to 0.5432797; Greenwash  $25\%$  is a dummy variable, which takes on a value of 1 if the Greenwash score is less than or equal to  $-0.6019885$ , and 0 otherwise.

Table 3 exhibits the division of the firms by Bloomberg industrial sector.
Table 3. Frequency table by industrial sector.

|  Sector | Greenwash75% | Greenwash25%  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  Communication services | 4.35% | 6.51%  |
|  Consumer discretionary | 11.67% | 14.56%  |
|  Consumer staples | 6.93% | 4.96%  |
|  Energy | 6.04% | 3.65%  |
|  Financial | 15.24% | 19.56%  |
|  Health care | 6.22% | 11.15%  |
|  Industrial | 18.63% | 16.14%  |
|  Information technology | 9.02% | 8.85%  |
|  Materials | 10.03% | 8.05%  |
|  Real estate | 5.89% | 6.58%  |
|  Utilities | 5.98% | 2.06%  |
|  Total | 100.0% | 100.0%  |

This table presents the frequency count of firms by greenwashing type per industry sector as defined by Bloomberg. Greenwash  $75\%$  is a dummy variable that takes on a value of 1 if the Greenwash variable is greater or equal to 0.5432797; Greenwash  $25\%$  is a dummy variable, which takes on a value of 1 if the Greenwash score is less than or equal to  $-0.6019885$ , and 0 otherwise.

Table 3 shows that Greenwash  $75\%$  firms are more likely in the sectors of consumer staples, energy, industrial, information technology, materials, and utilities, all of which impact environmentally sensitive areas. This is in contrast to the results of Ruiz-Blanco et al. (2022). The representation of greenwashing firms in all industrial sectors is rather striking. I do not find evidence that service firms are more likely to over-promote their ESG activities. This contradicts the results of Ramus and Montiel (2005).

Table 4 presents the financial and control variables used in this study.

There are some differences in the means between the Greenwash  $75\%$  firms and the Greenwash  $25\%$  firms. First, Greenwash  $75\%$  firms have a lower weighted average cost of capital. There seems to be no difference in the individual component costs of capital. The difference in the debt-to-capital ratio may explain this. Greenwash  $75\%$  firms have a higher debt-to-capital ratio. This means they may be using a greater ratio of less expensive debt financing to lower their weighted average cost of capital. Greenwash  $75\%$  firms tend to be larger, as shown by the market cap and net cap exp figures. Greenwash  $75\%$  firms also have a higher percentage of institutional ownership. Greenwash  $75\%$  firms have a lower dividend yield on average and a higher prs score, indicating that they are located in countries with less political risk. Greenwash  $75\%$  firms exhibit less idiosyncratic risk than Greenwash  $25\%$  firms as shown by the standard deviations of their stock returns (sd). Table 5 exhibits the means of the Refinitiv component scores for the Greenwash  $75\%$  and Greenwash  $25\%$  firms.

There is no significant difference in the ESG scores between the two samples. Greenwash  $75\%$  firms have higher Controversies scores than non-Greenwash  $75\%$  firms. By