Newell et al. (1998) examine the effects of misleading environmental claims on consumer perceptions of ads. They find that higher perceived deception leads to less corporate credibility. They find that higher deception results in less favorable attitudes toward the ad. Higher levels of perceived deception also lead to less favorable attitudes toward the brand. And higher deception results in decreased purchase intentions. Greer and Bruno (1996) provided a detailed study of the misleading environmental claims of twenty corporations and their actual environmental performance.

Kärnä et al. (2001) investigate if green advertising reflects sound decisions in the Finnish forestry industry. They find that in general, the advertisements reflect the company's environmental decisions.

Laufer (2003) argues that corporate ESG reporting has many parallels with financial reporting. Greenwashing here is a form of “moral hazard”. This shifts the risk of social non-compliance from management onto shareholders and consumers. Laufer notes the inadequacy of reporting standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to address this moral hazard. He argues for the need for independent auditors of ESG performance, like that which prevails in financial reporting.

Bazillier and Vauday (2009) view corporate social responsibility and advertising as strategic complements. They explore unsubstantiated claims in a theoretical and empirical framework. They find that advertising effort has a positive effect on the level of corporate social responsibility.

Chen and Chang (2013) research the effect of greenwashing on consumer perceptions. They find that greenwashing decreases trust in companies. This leads to greater consumer confusion. They also find that greenwashing increases the perceived risk of a company's products.

Nyilasy et al. (2014) investigate the effects of green advertising and a corporation's environmental performance on brand attitudes and purchase intentions. They find that greater green advertising results in more unfavorable brand attitudes.

Chen et al. (2014) research the effect of greenwashing on consumer word-of-mouth advertising of brands. They find that greenwashing hurts perceived quality and satisfaction.

Rahman et al. (2015) examine the effect of greenwashing on consumer participation in hotel industry environmental programs. They find greenwashing increases consumer skepticism and decreases participation.

Parguel et al. (2015) examine whether evoking nature can mislead consumers about a brand's ecological image. They find that it does, especially if the consumer has low ecological knowledge.

Aji and Sutikno (2015) investigate consumer attitudes toward green labeling in Indonesia. They find that greenwashing increases consumer skepticism and perceived risk. However, at the same time, it increases trust.

Akturan (2018) explore the effect of greenwashing on green brand equity. He finds that greenwashing harms green brand associations and brand credibility. He finds that greenwashing indirectly influences green brand equity and purchase intention.

Schmuck et al. (2018) examine the differing effects of vague and deliberately misleading advertising. They find that vague claims do not hurt company brands while misleading claims do.

Wang et al. (2019) examine the impact of greenwashing of one brand on the purchase intention of green products from other brands. Further, they test the mediating role of greenwashing perception of the entire industry and the moderating role of brand attitudes towards other brands in the industry. Their results suggest that the greenwashing behavior of one brand negatively affects consumers' purchase intention of green products from other brands in the industry. Their results also indicate that the greenwashing perception of the entire industry partially mediates the relationship between the greenwashing behavior of a brand and the purchase intention of green products from other brands.

Gatti et al. (2019) provide a systematic review of the literature on greenwashing. They find that though greenwashing may be successfully used to influence consumers'