J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526

Table 4. Cont.

|  Variable | Net Cap Ex | Prs | Sd | Greenwash | Tobin's Q  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  Mean | 294.642 | 4.712563 | 0.449769 | -0.403442 | 1.848424  |
|  Std. dev. | 4514.415 | 0.814684 | 0.55017 | 0.445346 | 40.83721  |
|  Skewness | -70.89889 | -1.22266 | 93.40849 | -0.005203 | 61.25014  |
|  Kurtosis | 8191.681 | 3.179402 | 12,172.15 | 2.529361 | 5106.588  |
|  t-stat | 1.6746* | 9.853*** | -4.4691*** | 48.2828*** | -0.0218  |

This table presents the control variables by greenwashing type. Greenwash25% is a dummy variable, which takes on a value of 1 if the Greenwash score is less than or equal to  $-0.6019885$ , and 0 otherwise. Greenwash75% is a dummy variable that takes on a value of 1 if the Greenwash variable is greater or equal to 0.5432797, and 0 otherwise. Cod is the after-tax cost of debt = pre-tax cost of debt (1 - tax rate). The average effective tax rate for the sector is used for this computation. Coe1 is estimated using the capital asset pricing model: cost of equity = risk-free rate + beta (risk premium). The average beta for the sector is used. I use the long-term treasury bond rate as the risk-free rate and a  $5.5\%$  risk premium. Coe2 is the dividend yield of the stock plus the reinvestment rate times the roe. Wacc is the market-weighted cod and coe1. Roe is the net income divided by the book value of equity. Fcff = EBIT(1-t) - (capital expenditures - depreciation) - change in non-cash working capital. Tobin's Q is estimated using the methodology of Peters and Taylor (2017). Beta is estimated by regressing weekly returns on stock against the local index using 5 years of data. Capitalized R&amp;D is R&amp;D expenses amortized over five years at the cost of capital. Cash is Cash and Marketable Securities reported in the balance sheet. Debt to capital is the market value of debt divided by the market value of debt plus the market value of equity. Institutions is the shares held by institutions/shares outstanding. Liquidity is the average number of shares traded divided by the number of shares outstanding. Market cap is the estimated market value of shares outstanding, obtained by multiplying the number of shares outstanding by the share price. Net cap exp is capital expenditures - depreciation. Prs is the political risk variable for the home country from ICRG. Sd is the standard deviation of daily stock returns over the year. Fcfe = net income - (capital expenditures - depreciation) - change in non-cash working capital - (principal repaid - new debt issued). *, **, and *** show significance at the  $10\%$ ,  $5\%$  and  $1\%$  level respectively. t-stat te/st is for mean difference between the top quartile based on the Greenwashing variable versus the bottom quartile based on the greenwashing variable.

Table 5. Comparison of ESG scores between the Greenwash75% firms and Greenwash25% firms.

|   | Greenwash75% Mean | Greenwash25% Mean | t-Statistic for Different Means  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  ESG | 49.99163 | 50.475 | -1.474  |
|  Community | 39.33427 | 52.75235 | -24.7924 ***  |
|  Controversies | 55.28866 | 49.08049 | 16.9706 ***  |
|  CSRStrategy | 60.70247 | 47.9423 | 25.6172 ***  |
|  Emissions | 19.24586 | 57.31986 | -79.0299 ***  |
|  EnvInnovation | 37.47043 | 53.09051 | -33.6918 ***  |
|  Human Rights | 41.6655 | 52.08016 | -21.1818 ***  |
|  Management | 49.42927 | 49.61114 | -0.3359  |
|  Product Resp | 35.86163 | 53.82615 | -35.6395 ***  |
|  ResourceUse | 21.63593 | 56.64817 | -74.2362 ***  |
|  Shareholders | 48.00174 | 50.03811 | -3.6957 ***  |
|  Workforce | 30.16618 | 55.06456 | -48.0108 ***  |

ESG is the Refinitiv ESG score. Community, Controversies, CSRStrategy, Emissions, EnvInnovation, Human Rights, Management, Product Resp, ResourceUse, Shareholders, and Workforce are the category scores that go into determining the overall ESG score. Significance is signified by *, **, and *** at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. Greenwash25% is a dummy variable, which takes on a value of 1 if the Greenwash score is less than or equal to -0.6019885, and 0 otherwise.

In the preceding analysis, there is the question of whether the greenwashing variable is interrelated with the ESG variable. To test this, panel Granger causality tests were run. The results are presented in Table 6.

Table 6 shows that there is some concern that ESG scores cause the Greenwash variable. The ESG score does not Granger-cause the Greenwash75% dummy variable at the 5% significance level. The ESG score does Granger-cause the Greenwash25% level, causing some concerns about the interpretation of the Greenwash25% variable.