J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526

3973 firms in the sample. The sample period is from 2002 to 2022. The firm financial data are from Bloomberg.

Table 1. Greenwash variable and correlation with ESG score and greenwash dummy variables.

|  Statistic | Greenwash  |   |   |   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  Mean | 0.4138927  |   |   |   |
|  Std. dev. | 5.132731  |   |   |   |
|  Skewness | 49.12677  |   |   |   |
|  Kurtosis | 3187.111  |   |   |   |
|  90th percentile | 1.912004  |   |   |   |
|  75th percentile | 0.5432797  |   |   |   |
|  25th percentile | -0.6019885  |   |   |   |
|  Correlations  |   |   |   |   |
|   | ESG | Greenwash | Greenwash75% | Greenwash25%  |
|  ESG | 1.0000 |  |  |   |
|  Greenwash | -0.0014 | 1.0000 |  |   |
|  Greenwash75% | -0.0102 | 0.2758 | 1.0000 |   |
|  Greenwash25% | 0.2767 | -0.1458 | -0.1182 | 1.0000  |

Greenwash is the greenwashing variable constructed by dividing the demeaned Refinitiv CSRStrategy score by the arithmetic mean of the Refinitiv Emissions score and the ResourceUse score. Greenwash25% is a dummy variable that takes on a value of 1 if the Greenwash variable is lesser than or equal to -0.6019885, and 0 otherwise. Greenwash75% is a dummy variable that takes on a value of 1 if the Greenwash variable is greater or equal to 0.5432797, and 0 otherwise. ESG is the Refinitiv ESG score. The correlation coefficients are Pearson correlation coefficients.

To further refine the process, I create two dummy variables. Greenwash  $75\%$ , which takes on a value of 1 if the firm has a Greenwash score of 0.5432797 or greater, and 0 otherwise. This is taken as representing greenwashing firms. Greenwash  $25\%$ , which takes on a value of 1 if the Greenwash score is less than or equal to  $-0.6019885$ , and 0 otherwise. This represents "brownwashing" firms. Brownwashing firms are firms whose environmental activities are not overly promoted.

To give some idea of the appropriateness of the classification, consider the case of Volkswagen in 2015. The data for the Greenwash variable would have come out in the first part of the year. Based on Volkswagen's scores, the firm would have a Greenwash score of 1.23. This means it would be in the Greenwash  $75\%$  category. Volkswagen followed an aggressive growth strategy. The company expected to triple its sales in the US with the promotion of clean diesel technology (Muller 2013). In September 2015, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) accused Volkswagen of defrauding emission tests through software installed on its cars (Davenport and Ewing 2015). Volkswagen admitted to cheating on 11 million diesel vehicles around the world to circumvent emissions tests in the USA and elsewhere. Internal changes in manufacturing led to an improvement in their Greenwash score in 2016 of 0.62, still in the Greenwash  $75\%$  set, but improving.

Table 2 gives a breakdown of the firms by developed and emerging markets as defined by Morgan Stanley.

Table 2 shows little difference in the proportion of emerging market firms for Greenwash  $75\%$  firms versus Greenwash  $25\%$  firms. The t-test statistic on the two means has a value of 1.347, which is significant at the  $18\%$  level. However, examination of the sample statistics shows that the Greenwash scores of developed market firms exhibit a larger positive skewness and a larger kurtosis than the emerging market firm sample (Skewness Developed Markets: 5.32; Skewness Emerging Markets: 2.15; Kurtosis Developed Markets: 89.04; Kurtosis Emerging Markets: 10.4). Huang et al. (2020) argue that emerging markets are more conducive to greenwashing. I do not find support for that here.