They find that companies that incorporate sustainable development goals are more likely to improve their environmental performance. But this was mediated by the strong government pressure they were under to meet the sustainable development goals.

Ferrón-Vílchez et al. (2021) research how greenwashing affects managerial behavior. Their findings indicate that managers who perceive greenwashing start to form negative feelings about the greenwasher. This hurts their willingness to start or continue the business relationship with the greenwasher. This is moderated by the “green attitude” of the manager, with a higher green attitude leading to less of a relationship.

Mbanyele et al. (2022) examine the effects of mandatory CSR reporting on CSR scores, environmental innovation, and quality of innovation. They find that mandatory CSR reporting leads to higher CSR scores. It also leads to greater innovation and quality of innovation. This effect is greatest for firms with weaker corporate governance and weaker CSR disclosure standards before mandatory reporting.

Zhang (2022b) examines firm product quality in light of environmental regulation. He finds environmental regulation has a positive effect on product quality for low-pollution firms. There is a negative impact on product quality from environmental regulation for pollution-heavy firms. Financial constraints motivate pollution-heavy firms to decrease their product quality. This promotes greenwashing.

Zhang (2022a) creates a peer-relative greenwash score to measure greenwashing by companies. He finds that companies' greenwashing decisions are motivated by financial constraints.

García-Sánchez et al. (2022) examine the relationship between Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) certification and greenwashing. They use an international sample of 1939 companies (15,219 observations from 2002 to 2017). They find that GRI certification leads to less greenwashing.

Ruiz-Blanco et al. (2022) investigate the characteristics that make a company pursue greenwashing. They provide evidence that companies in environmentally sensitive industries greenwash less than their counterparts in other industries, as well as companies following the GRI guidelines. Companies that issue a sustainability report greenwash less than those that do not. Companies in industries with proximity and high visibility greenwash more than their counterparts.

According to Hu et al. (2023), disparities in ESG ratings reveal that firms with heightened internal oversight and significant external investor scrutiny display a reduced, and at times negligible, propensity for corporate greenwashing.

Gregory (2023) finds that greenwashing is promoted by low stock price volatility, high costs of capital, and high information asymmetry between managers and shareholders.

The literature on the drivers of greenwashing has thus far been extensive in terms of quantifiable drivers, with little attention paid to ideological and psychological drivers.

### 2.3. Financial Effects of Greenwashing

Walker and Wan (2012), in a study of top Canadian firms in highly polluting industries, find that greenwashing and symbolic environmental activities by firms harm financial performance. They measure financial performance using return on assets and do not control for endogeneity.

Mahoney et al. (2013) examine if standalone company corporate social responsibility reports are a form of greenwashing. They do this by comparing the CSR performance scores of issuers versus non-issuers. They find that companies issuing CSR reports have higher scores. They conclude that issuing reports is not a form of greenwashing.

Du (2015) investigates the market valuation effects of Chinese firms named greenwashing firms. The exposure of greenwashing leads to a significant negative return for the named firms. This effect is found to come from two sources. There is a competitive effect for environmentally friendly firms and a contagious effect for potential environmental wrongdoers.