J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526

associated with a lower weighted average cost of capital for the firm, but it is not clear if this is from greenwashing or if greenwashing allows greenwashing firms to issue more low-cost debt by “fooling” the markets that they are less risky. However, greenwashing is associated with higher idiosyncratic risk. Moreover, greenwashing is associated with a greater likelihood of ESG-related controversies in the future. There is significant evidence of a complex relationship between greenwashing and ESG rating scores. There is no evidence found to support the idea that ESG reporting mandates inhibit greenwashing.

The limitations of this study are primarily the endogeneity of the greenwashing decision. I have tried to control for this using GMM estimation and lagged differenced instruments. The other major limitation is the bi-directional relationship between ESG scores and the Greenwash score. I have tried to control for that using GMM estimation and a series of dummy variables. It could be argued that the Greenwash score used does not capture greenwashing as per the definition. I have tried to use a very wide definition of greenwashing.

Another limitation is the use of a single greenwashing score. Expanding upon this study using additional greenwashing scores along the lines of Li et al. (2023) might be fruitful.

My suggestions for research are further studies on the measurement of greenwashing, the relationship between greenwashing and financial outcomes, and the determinants of greenwashing. Follow-up research on the hypothesis that greenwashing has a bi-directional relationship with ESG ratings with rating scores from other rating firms is called for.

In addition, the hypothesis that greenwashing may act as a means of risk reduction needs further investigation. Greenwashing introduces a new set of risks to a firm and presumably alters its risk exposure.

Further research should also be conducted on possible moderating influences on greenwashing, such as regulatory regimes, political risk, press freedom, etc.

Funding: This research received no external funding.

Data Availability Statement: The Refinitiv data, the prs data, and the Bloomberg data are all proprietary and are available from their vendors.

Conflicts of Interest: The author declares no conflicts of interest.

# References

Aji, Hendy Mustiko, and Bayu Sutikno. 2015. The extended consequence of greenwashing: Perceived consumer skepticism. International Journal of Business and Information 10: 433.
Akturan, Ulun. 2018. How does greenwashing affect green branding equity and purchase intention? An empirical research. Marketing Intelligence &amp; Planning 36: 809-24.
Apergis, Nicholas, Thomas Poufinas, and Alexandros Antonopoulos. 2022. ESG scores and cost of debt. Energy Economics 112: 106186. [CrossRef]
Arouri, Mohamed, Sadok El Ghoul, and Mathieu Gomes. 2021. Greenwashing and product market competition. Finance Research Letters 42: 101927. [CrossRef]
Bazillier, Rémi, and Julien Vauday. 2009. The Greenwashing Machine: Is CSR More Than Communication. Available online: https://hal.science/hal-00448861/ (accessed on 17 August 2022).
Berrone, Pascual, Andrea Fosfuri, and Liliana Gelabert. 2017. Does greenwashing pay off? Understanding the relationship between environmental actions and environmental legitimacy. Journal of Business Ethics 144: 363-79. [CrossRef]
Bilson, Christopher M., Timothy J. Brailsford, and Vincent C. Hooper. 2002. The explanatory power of political risk in emerging markets. International Review of Financial Analysis 11: 1-27. [CrossRef]
Buchanan, Bonnie, Cathy Xuying Cao, and Chongyang Chen. 2018. Corporate social responsibility, firm value, and influential institutional ownership. Journal of Corporate Finance 52: 73-95. [CrossRef]
Carlson, Les, Stephen J. Grove, and Norman Kangun. 1993. A content analysis of environmental advertising claims: A matrix method approach. Journal of Advertising 22: 27-39. [CrossRef]
Chen, Yu-Shan, and Ching-Hsun Chang. 2013. Greenwash and green trust: The mediation effects of green consumer confusion and green perceived risk. Journal of Business Ethics 114: 489-500. [CrossRef]
Chen, Yu-Shan, Chang-Liang Lin, and Ching-Hsun Chang. 2014. The influence of greenwash on green word-of-mouth (green WOM): The mediation effects of green perceived quality and green satisfaction. Quality &amp; Quantity 48: 2411-25.