perceptions about a firm's CSR activities, it carries with it risks of negative effects on consumers' attitudes and financial performance.

Examining the reaction of consumers to greenwashing, Nguyen et al. (2019) demonstrate that greenwashing is negatively associated with green purchase intentions and that green skepticism mediates this negative association.

Pimonenko et al. (2020) check the impact of greenwashing on companies' green brands in Ukraine. They find that greenwashing leads to a decline in the company's green brand. They also find that the strongest factor influencing greenwashing is information on the company's official website.

Szabo and Webster (2021) examine the effects of green marketing on environmental and product perceptions. Perceived greenwashing is positively associated with green risk. Greenwashing is negatively associated with green value, brand attitudes, and purchase intentions. Greenwashing is also negatively related to happiness.

The literature on the effects of greenwashing on the public's attitudes towards companies that greenwash has focused almost entirely on consumer attitudes, with little notice paid to the effects of greenwashing on investor, manager, and employee attitudes. This is a glaring omission.

### 2.2. Drivers of Greenwashing

Munshi and Kurian (2005) examine greenwashing in light of postcolonial theory. They argue that corporate social responsibility is a long-term corporate strategy for social acceptance. It reflects public relations. This is not backed up by actual deeds. Public relations are in an asymmetric hierarchy of relations amongst Western shareholders, the Western public, and Third World citizens who play little role in the hierarchy. This asymmetry allows corporations to talk about ecological aims without giving up their goal of corporate profits.

Ramus and Montiel (2005) find low rates of adoption of specific environmental policies. They find that service companies are more likely to commit to environmental policies than to act on them.

Vos (2009) argues that greenwashing is a recent strategy for corporations. It arose from the use of marketing to counter environmental regulations that began in the 1970s. He argues this led to appearing environmentally friendly and began to be good for company profitability. This was a shift from the traditional corporate response of denying environmental “unfriendliness”. He makes the case that the strongest reason for greenwashing is economic.

Cherry and Sneirson (2010) examine the stark contrast between BP's cultivated green image and its disastrous environmental record. They determine that the reason for greenwashing is a corporate culture based on shareholder primacy.

Parguel et al. (2011) examine the effect of a company's corporate social responsibility (CSR) ratings on the perceived effect of its corporate communications. A company's CSR rating has a direct effect on the perceived intrinsic motives of the company's communications on ESG issues. So much so, that Parguel et al. propose that ratings may deter greenwashing.

Delmas and Cuerel Burbano (2011) make a systematic analysis of the drivers of greenwashing. They define a greenwashing firm as engaging in two behaviors: poor environmental performance and positive communication about its environmental performance. They list twelve drivers for greenwashing: first, Law and Uncertain Regulatory Environment; second, Activist, NGO, and Media Monitoring; third, Consumer Demand; fourth, Investor Demand; fifth, Competitive Pressure; sixth, Firm Characteristics, such as size, industry, profitability, lifecycle stage, and particular resources and competencies; seventh, Incentive Structure and Culture; eighth, Effectiveness of Intra-Firm Communication; ninth, Organizational Inertia; tenth, Optimistic Bias; eleventh, Narrow Decision Framing; and twelfth, Hyperbolic Intertemporal Discounting. In the conclusion, they also mention limited and imperfect information about environmental performance. They make no distinction about the contribution of these drivers.