a measure of greenwashing. This is a broad measure of greenwashing, as it ignores that a firm may not have to put as much effort as another firm to be ESG compliant. It also, unfortunately, mixes several previous definitions of greenwashing into one measure as well as captures legitimate information that may be helpful to consumers and investors. Thus, it is a noisy measure.

Greenwashing of course presents a host of problems to the market. For investors, it hides risks that the company is exposed to, thus leading them to undercharge capital and subsequently leading to inefficient allocation of capital. For consumers, it leads to misallocation of consumption and misallocation of personal investment.

Despite the voluminous literature on greenwashing, there have previously been few attempts at estimating the effects of greenwashing on the financial aspects of firms. The previous research has concentrated primarily on the effect of greenwashing on the market value of the firm's shares. Walker and Wan (2012), Du (2015), Testa et al. (2018a), and Ghitti et al. (2020) all find that greenwashing decreases the value of a greenwashing firm's stock shares. The reason for this is not clear. Zhang (2022a) finds that greenwashing activities by firms are associated with the firms being financially constrained. Kim and Lyon (2015) find that greenwashing is associated with higher profits and increased regulation. Marquis and Toffel (2011, 2012) propose that greenwashing is associated with increased firm size. Gregory (2023) finds that greenwashing is promoted by low stock price volatility, high costs of capital, and high information asymmetry between managers and shareholders.

The previous research has been limited in exploring the effects of greenwashing on financial metrics because the greenwashing measure used is an endogenous variable. I use a methodology that addresses this based on the errors-in-variables technique proposed by Griliches and Hausman (1986). By treating the Greenwash score used here as an endogenous variable, and realizing it is negatively correlated with the error term, this reveals a much richer and accurate set of results.

In this research, I examine the financial outcomes of greenwashing by constructing a greenwashing index using Refinitiv ESG component scores. I find that overall, the results suggest that greenwashing is a complex phenomenon with both positive and negative consequences. While it can improve a firm's public image and potentially enhance its financial performance, it may also lead to increased risk and misallocation of resources. Greenwashing firms have a lower weighted average cost of capital due to a higher debt-to-capital ratio. They are larger, have higher institutional ownership, and lower dividend yields. On the other hand, greenwashing firms have more ESG-related controversies that can hurt firm revenues and market value, they have higher unsystematic risk, and return on equity. I also find evidence that there is a feedback relationship between ESG ratings and greenwashing.

Section 2 details the previous literature. Section 3 describes the materials and methods used in this research. Section 4 presents the results. Section 5 discusses the results. Section 6 presents the conclusion.

## 2. Literature Review

### 2.1. Greenwashing and Public Attitudes

Greenwashing has a long and considerable literature of investigation. Kangun et al. (1991) first address the problems with environmental advertising. They examined 18 periodicals from 1989 to 1990 for environmental advertising. A total of 58% of the environmental ads had at least one misleading claim by expert judges with environmental backgrounds.

Carlson et al. (1993) take a similar approach with environmental ads using MBA students guided by a matrix typology. The judges found 60% of the environmental ads to be misleading.

Manrai et al. (1997) investigate “green-claims” and country disposition. Moderate claims of greenness led to more favorable product evaluations than stronger claims. Country development also had a positive effect on product evaluation.