J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526

Table 9. Cont.

|  Dyt-1 | -12.81213 *** (3.324323) | -4050.511 ** (1699.84) | -49.20734 (87.18703) | -0.16869 (0.0817)  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  Institutionst-1 | -0.634455 (0.469067) | 917.6662 *** (269.3322) | -7.668536 (12.67008) | -0.23213 *** (0.01478)  |
|  Liquidityt-1 | 0.052842 (0.062117) | -91.98945 (34.99246) | -0.237169 (1.67327) | 0.02424 *** (0.001953)  |
|  Market capt-1 | -0.000016 *** (6 × 10-6) | 0.010108 *** (0.002543) | -0.000053 (0.000144) | -7 × 10-7 (2.2 × 10-6)  |
|  Net cap expt-1 | -5 × 10-6 (0.000036) | -0.780886 (0.018775) | 0.000301 (0.000933) | -0.01252 (0.03876)  |
|  Prst-1 | 0.356266 (1.062659) | 2679.781 *** (580.9638) | 52.54887 * (28.10396) | -0.03607 ** (0.01724)  |
|  Sdt-1 | -0.631564 (0.512532) | 141.977 (283.0456) | 2.050788 (14.5307) |   |
|  Wald test | 1456.37 *** | 7176.43 *** | 202.81 *** | 352.331 ***  |
|  J-stat | 1531.62 | 6566.34 | 232.19 | 623.89  |
|  Sargan Test Stat. | 0.61 | 0.02 | 2.75 | 2.61  |

The table shows the results of the Dynamic Panel estimation of the models above in the text. Cod is the after-tax cost of debt = pre-tax cost of debt (1 - tax rate). The average effective tax rate for the sector is used for this computation. Coe1 is estimated using the capital asset pricing model: cost of equity = risk-free rate + beta (risk premium). The average beta for the sector is used. I use the long-term treasury bond rate as the risk-free rate and a  $5.5\%$  risk premium. Coe2 is the dividend yield of the stock plus the reinvestment rate times the roe. Wacc is the market-weighted cod and coe1. Roe is the net income divided by the book value of equity. Fcff = EBIT(1-t) - (capital expenditures - depreciation) - change in non-cash working capital. Tobin's Q is estimated using the methodology of Peters and Taylor (2017). ESG is the Refinitiv ESG score. Greenwash is the Greenwash score detailed in the text above. Greenwash² is the squared Greenwash score. Beta is estimated by regressing weekly returns on stock against the local index using 5 years of data. Capitalized R&amp;D is R&amp;D expenses amortized over five years at the cost of capital. Cash is Cash and Marketable Securities reported in the balance sheet. Debt to capital is the market value of debt divided by the market value of debt plus the market value of equity. Institutions is the shares held by institutions/shares outstanding. Liquidity is the average number of shares traded divided by the number of shares outstanding. Market cap is the estimated market value of shares outstanding, obtained by multiplying the number of shares outstanding by the share price. Net cap exp is capital expenditures - depreciation. Prs is the political risk variable for the home country from ICRG. Sd is the standard deviation of daily stock returns over the year. Industry, year, and country effects are controlled for but not reported to save space. Standard errors are reported in parentheses. *, **, and *** signify significance at the 10%, 5%, and 1% levels, respectively. The Sargan Test Stat. tests the null hypothesis of no endogeneity.

As Table 10 shows, CSRStrategy, defined as the score which measures a company's practices to communicate that it integrates the economic (financial), social, and environmental dimensions into its day-to-day decision-making processes, has the largest effect in determining a firm's ESG score. In that greenwashing is in part defined as communicating selectively too much about social and economic dimensions not substantiated by performance, this brings up the possibility of a feedback loop between greenwashing and ESG scoring via the practices of ESG rating firms.

If, as demonstrated in Table 10, ESG rating firms give higher weights in determining their ESG scores to firms that communicate about environmental and social dimensions without reckoning for greenwashing, this leads to a feedback loop. Greenwashing firms will be encouraged to increase their greenwashing to obtain better ESG ratings.

To test this further, I conduct Granger causality tests between the Greenwash variable, the ESG score, and the CSRStrategy score. The results are shown in Table 11.

There is evidence that greenwashing Granger-causes CSRStrategy of the firm and that CSRStrategy causes ESG, as also affirmed in the results of Table 11 and from Refinitiv (2022). In return, ESG Granger-causes greenwashing at the  $3.5\%$  level. So, the evidence supports that there is a weak feedback loop between greenwashing and ESG rating scores. This implies that greenwashing behavior is not penalized much in the Refinitiv ESG scores.

Lastly, I re-estimate the main model, dividing the sample by developed markets and emerging markets as suggested by an anonymous referee. The results are presented in Tables 12 and 13.