J. Risk Financial Manag. 2024, 17, 526
29 of 30

Li, Wei, Weining Li, Veikko Seppänen, and Timo Koivumäki. 2023. Effects of greenwashing on financial performance: Moderation through local environmental regulation and media coverage. Business Strategy and the Environment 32: 820-41. [CrossRef]
Lopez, Luciano, and Sylvain Weber. 2017. Testing for Granger causality in panel data. The Stata Journal 17: 972-84. [CrossRef]
Lyon, Thomas P., and A. Wren Montgomery. 2013. Tweetjacked: The impact of social media on corporate greenwash. Journal of Business Ethics 118: 747-57. [CrossRef]
Lyon, Thomas P., and A. Wren Montgomery. 2015. The means and end of greenwash. Organization &amp; Environment 28: 223-49.
Lyon, Thomas P., and John W. Maxwell. 2011. Greenwash: Corporate environmental disclosure under threat of audit. Journal of Economics &amp; Management Strategy 20: 3-41.
Mahoney, Lois S., Linda Thorne, Lianna Cecil, and William LaGore. 2013. A research note on standalone corporate social responsibility reports: Signaling or greenwashing? Critical Perspectives on Accounting 24: 350-59. [CrossRef]
Manrai, Lalita A., Ajay K. Manrai, Dana-Nicoleta Lascu, and John K. Ryans, Jr. 1997. How green-claim strength and country disposition affect product evaluation and company image. Psychology &amp; Marketing 14: 511-37.
Marquis, Christopher, and Michael W. Toffel. 2011. The Globalization of Corporate Environmental Disclosure: Accountability or Greenwashing? Boston: Harvard Business School.
Marquis, Christopher, and Michael W. Toffel. 2012. When Do Firms Greenwash? Corporate Visibility, Civil Society Scrutiny, and Environmental Disclosure. Boston: Harvard Business School, pp. 11-115.
Marquis, Christopher, Michael W. Toffel, and Yanhua Zhou. 2016. Scrutiny, norms, and selective disclosure: A global study of greenwashing. Organization Science 27: 483-504. [CrossRef]
Mbanyele, William, Hongyun Huang, Yafei Li, Linda T. Muchenje, and Fengrong Wang. 2022. Corporate social responsibility and green innovation: Evidence from mandatory CSR disclosure laws. Economics Letters 212: 110322. [CrossRef]
Mitchell, Lorianne D., and Wesley D. Ramey. 2011. Look how green I am! An individual-level explanation for greenwashing. Journal of Applied Business and Economics 12: 40-45.
Muller, Joann. 2013. How Volkswagen will rule the world. Forbes. April 17. Available online: www.forbes.com/sites/joannmuller/2013/04/17/volkswagensmissiontodominateglobalautoindustrygetsnoticeablyharder/#5c3030f11ab6 (accessed on 8 September 2022).
Munshi, Debashish, and Priya Kurian. 2005. Imperializing spin cycles: A postcolonial look at public relations, greenwashing, and the separation of publics. *Public Relations Review* 31: 513-20. [CrossRef]
Newell, Stephen J., Ronald E. Goldsmith, and Edgar J. Banzhaf. 1998. The effect of misleading environmental claims on consumer perceptions of advertisements. Journal of Marketing Theory and Practice 6: 48-60. [CrossRef]
Ng, Anthony C., and Zabihollah Rezaee. 2015. Business sustainability performance and cost of equity capital. Journal of Corporate Finance 34: 128-49. [CrossRef]
Nguyen, Thi Thu Huong, Zhi Yang, Ninh Nguyen, Lester W. Johnson, and Tuan Khanh Cao. 2019. Greenwash and green purchase intention: The mediating role of green skepticism. Sustainability 11: 2653. [CrossRef]
Nishitani, Kimitaka, Thi Bich Hue Nguyen, Trong Quy Trinh, Qi Wu, and Katsuhiko Kokubu. 2021. Are corporate environmental activities to meet sustainable development goals (SDGs) simply greenwashing? An empirical study of environmental management control systems in Vietnamese companies from the stakeholder management perspective. Journal of Environmental Management 296: 113364. [CrossRef]
Nyilasy, Gergely, Harsha Gangadharbatla, and Angela Paladino. 2014. Perceived greenwashing: The interactive effects of green advertising and corporate environmental performance on consumer reactions. Journal of Business Ethics 125: 693-707. [CrossRef]
Parguel, Béatrice, Florence Benoît-Moreau, and Cristel Antonia Russell. 2015. Can evoking nature in advertising mislead consumers? The power of 'executional greenwashing'. International Journal of Advertising 34: 107-34. [CrossRef]
Parguel, Béatrice, Florence Benoit-Moreau, and Fabrice Larceneux. 2009. A Closer Look at Ethical Corporate Marketing: Sustainability Ratings as a Means to Deter Greenwashing. Centre de recherche DRM UMR 7088-DMSP. Paris: Université Paris IX Dauphine.
Parguel, Béatrice, Florence Benoit-Moreau, and Fabrice Larceneux. 2011. How sustainability ratings might deter 'greenwashing': A closer look at ethical corporate communication. Journal of Business Ethics 102: 15-28. [CrossRef]
Pearson, Jason. 2010. Turning point. Are we doing the right thing? Leadership and prioritisation for public benefit. Journal of Corporate Citizenship 37: 37-40. [CrossRef]
Peters, Ryan H., and Lucian A. Taylor. 2017. Intangible capital and the investment-q relation. Journal of Financial Economics 123: 251-72. [CrossRef]
Pimonenko, Tetyana, Yuriy Bilan, Jakub Horák, Liudmyla Starchenko, and Waldemar Gajda. 2020. Green brand of companies and greenwashing under sustainable development goals. Sustainability 12: 1679. [CrossRef]
Rahman, Imran, Jeongdoo Park, and Christina Geng-qing Chi. 2015. Consequences of "greenwashing": Consumers' reactions to hotels' green initiatives. International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management 27: 1054-81. [CrossRef]
Raimo, Nicola, Alessandra Caragnano, Marianna Zito, Filippo Vitolla, and Massimo Mariani. 2021. Extending the benefits of ESG disclosure: The effect on the cost of debt financing. Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management 28: 1412-21. [CrossRef]
Ramus, Catherine A., and Ivan Montiel. 2005. When are corporate environmental policies a form of greenwashing? Business and Society 44: 377-414. [CrossRef]