financial reporting across entities and over time is crucial to enabling investors, lenders and other creditors to make more informed capital allocation decisions.

## Comparability: how?

Having established the importance of comparability, the next question is how can it be achieved? This, of course, is not a simple task.

### Global standards

When many people think about comparability in financial reporting, they think about the increasing use of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This is, in part, because the stated vision for IFRS is:“... one single set of high quality global standards ... used on the global capital markets.”

Many equate use of the same set of standards with achieving comparability. This vision for IFRS is based on the belief that use of global standards will improve the functioning of global capital markets. This should occur by increasing comparability and the quality of information, and by decreasing the costs of preparing financial reports, particularly for multinational firms, and information risk. Information risk is the risk that investors perceive when they know that they do not fully understand the information they are given, which would be the case if they are not ‘fluent' in the accounting standards on which a firm's financial statements are based. Decreasing information risk should decrease the cost of capital.

It is difficult to imagine how comparability can be achieved without the use of global financial reporting standards. However, use of global standards is only a necessary step -- not a sufficient step -- to achieving comparability because, for example, the standards need to be rigorously applied and enforced. Ensuring any set of financial reporting standards achieves its potential ultimately depends on firms applying the standards as written, auditors auditing the resulting financial statements to ensure compliance with the standards, and regulators enforcing the standards.

### Requirements in standards

Although a focus over the last decade or so has been on the widespread adoption of IFRS as a means of achieving comparability, even strict adherence to a single set of standards does not ensure comparability. The requirements in the standards also affect comparability and, thus, should not be overlooked. Let me explain how and why.

The Conceptual Framework considers financial statement elements, e.g. assets, liabilities, income, and expense, item by item. Examples of financial statement elements are accounts receivable, inventory, and long-term debt. The aim of focusing on financial statement elements item by item is to provide investors with comparable information about the entity's assets and claims against those assets. Profit or loss is the change in the assets and claims that do not arise from other assets, liabilities, or transactions with equity holders in their capacity as equity holders. The assumption underlying this focus is that comparability results from portraying financial statement elements in the same way, for example by recognizing the same (sub)set of assets and liabilities and measuring them in the same way.

However, does recognizing the same (sub)set of assets and liabilities achieve comparability? What if different assets and liabilities are important for some firms versus oth