China Journal of Accounting Studies, 2013

Vol. 1, No. 1, 2–12, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21697221.2013.781765

Routledge Taylor &amp; Francis Group

# COMMENTARY

## Global comparability in financial reporting: What, why, how, and when?

Mary E. Barth*

Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA

The Conceptual Framework identifies comparability as a qualitative characteristic of useful financial reporting information. This paper explains what comparability is, why comparability is desirable, how comparability is achieved, and when we might achieve it. In particular, comparability is the qualitative characteristic that enables users to identify and understand similarities in, and differences among, items; comparability aides investors, lenders and other creditors in making informed capital allocation decisions; and achieving comparability depends on firms applying a common set of financial reporting standards and on requirements in the standards, especially measurement requirements. The paper discusses research showing that greater comparability can lower costs of comparing investment opportunities and improving financial reporting information quality. When comparability might be achieved is uncertain, although much progress has been made recently.

**Keywords**: Comparability; global financial reporting; International Financial Reporting Standards; Conceptual Framework

The Conceptual Framework of the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB, 2010) specifies comparability as one of the qualitative characteristics of financial reporting information, which enable that information to achieve the objective of financial reporting. That objective is to provide investors, lenders and other creditors with information that helps them in making their capital allocation decisions. Because capital is a scare resource, comparability is a crucial characteristic of financial reporting information. If investors, lenders and other creditors cannot make informed comparisons of alternative investment opportunities, their capital allocation decisions will be suboptimal. In fact, some believe that enabling investors to compare investment opportunities is the main reason we need financial accounting standards to prescribe the contents of financial reports. Without such standards, firms could portray and provide information about their financial position and performance in any way they choose. Given that financial reporting does not derive from a law of nature, there are innumerable ways firms could do that, and comparability would be lost. Thus, comparability is crucial to high quality financial reporting. This discussion seeks to explain what comparability is, why comparability creates benefits for investors and the firms in which they invest, how comparability can be achieved, and when we might achieve it.

© 2013 Accounting Society of China