Barth

achieving comparability. An often overlooked second necessary step is the need to improve the standards themselves relating to recognition and measurement to truly achieve comparability. The progress towards comparability in the last ten years or so has been breathtaking. There always is room for improvement, but we are getting closer to achieving the goal.

## Acknowledgements

This article is based on the keynote address at the 2012 China Journal of Accounting Studies conference in connection with Southwestern University of Finance and Economics, as well as addresses at the Fundación Ramón Areces and Autonoma University; Journal of Contemporary Accounting conference at Tamkang University; Shanghai National Accounting Institute CFO Forum; and School of Accountancy Research Conference at Singapore Management University. The discussions at the 2011 Financial Accounting Standards Board/International Accounting Standards Board Financial Reporting Issues Conference aided in the development of the ideas in this article, and the examples in this article were taken from the conference materials. The author also appreciates the helpful comments of Richard Macve.

## Notes

1. The term ‘modified historical cost’ is meant to acknowledge that presently almost no financial statement elements are stated at historical cost. Almost all amounts have been allocated, amortized, impaired, or ‘modified’ in some way. Thus, referring to them as ‘historical cost’ is not descriptive.
2. To combine events with positive and negative predicted signs, event returns relating to the predicted negative events are subtracted instead of added.
3. For example, the European Commission has ‘carved out’ portions of International Accounting Standard 39, the financial instruments standard, that relate to hedge accounting, and Chinese firms follow Chinese Accounting Standards for Business Enterprises, which are substantially converged with IFRS, but not totally converged.
4. See the 2012 IFRS Foundation staff report to the IFRS Foundation Trustees describing the IFRS Foundation staff’s analysis of the 2012 SEC Final Staff Report on the Work Plan (the report is available on the IASB’s website). For further discussion of the history of the IASB see Zeff (2012).

## References

Armstrong, C. S., Barth, M. E., Jagolinzer, A. D., &amp; Riedl, E. J. (2010). Market reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe. *The Accounting Review*, 85, 31–61.
Barth, M. E., Landsman, W. R., Lang, M., &amp; Williams, C. (2012). Are IFRS-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable? *Journal of Accounting and Economics*, 54, 68–93.
International Accounting Standards Board. (2010). *The conceptual framework for financial reporting 2010*. London: IASB.
Leisenring, J., Linsmeier, T., Schipper, K., &amp; Trott, E. (2012). Business-model (intent)-based accounting. *Accounting and Business Research*, 42, 329–344.
Zeff, S. A. (2012). The evolution of the IASC into the IASB, and the challenges it faces. *The Accounting Review*, 87, 807–837.