China Journal of Accounting Studies
5

ers? For example, what about intellectual property assets of knowledge-based firms; property, plant, and equipment for durable manufacturers; and insurance liabilities for insurers? Do we achieve comparability if some assets – e.g., intangibles – or particular types of claims – e.g., claims with uncertain outcomes – are omitted? Do we achieve comparability if we omit intellectual property assets for all firms? Unrecognized assets and liabilities also have direct consequences for comparability of profit or loss because profit or loss depends on changes in recognized asset and liability amounts. Thus, if an asset is omitted, by construction the change in its recognized amount is zero and, as a result, it has no effect on profit or loss. If we omit intellectual property assets for all firms, do the financial statements of a knowledge-based firm and a durable manufacturer reflect their similarities and differences in a way that enables investors, lenders and other creditors to make informed capital allocation decisions? I cannot see how they can.

## Measurement

Measurement also plays a crucial role in comparability that is often overlooked. Because financial reporting standards focus on financial statement elements item by item, one is lulled into thinking that measuring the same asset in the same way helps achieve comparability. But, does it? What if the measure is modified historical cost? Although the method is the same, the resulting amounts likely differ. For example, the same asset purchased at different times will likely have a different measure. More differences can emerge over the life of the asset, e.g., if the asset is impaired or is part of a fair value hedge and, thus, its carrying amount is adjusted for the change in fair value attributable to the risk identified in the fair value hedge. How can modified historical cost achieve comparability?

What if the measure is fair value? IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement defines fair value as the price that would be obtained to sell an asset or transfer a liability between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value has the potential to achieve comparability because one would expect economic differences and similarities to be reflected in value. Thus, using fair values makes like things look alike and different things look different. However, a concern about using fair value is the potential effects of discretion in estimating the fair values. Although some assets and liabilities have readily determinable market values, others do not, which means that their fair values must be estimated by managers. Whenever estimates are used in financial reporting – which is almost everywhere – there is concern that managers will use their discretion opportunistically to affect the estimates. There is a vast academic literature that finds evidence of managers' opportunistic exercise of discretion relating to many accounting amounts, regardless of whether they are based on modified historical cost or on fair value.

What if the measure were something else? Perhaps another measure exists that overcomes the undesirable features of both modified historical cost and fair value and possesses desirable features. Unfortunately, standard setters have yet to identify such an alternative measure.

As an example to illustrate the effects on comparability of using cost or fair value to measure all assets, consider three entities: Entity A, Entity B, and Entity C. Entities A, B, and C each owns one share of common stock in Entity Z. The acquisition cost is 20 for Entity A, 40 for Entity B, and 60 for Entity C, and the current fair value of a share of common stock in Entity Z is 45. Are the financial statements of Entities A, B, and C comparable if each measures its investment at cost? The answer is 'no' because the three cost amounts – 20, 40, and 60 – make the asset look different when it is the same. Thus,