standards takes time even if we all agree. But, we do not. There are many unresolved questions that engender debate, some of which I have raised in this discussion on comparability: What do we mean by ‘like things' and ‘different things'? Does use of an asset change its economics? If so, how and why? What measurements should we use for various assets and liabilities and why? What information do investors need to make their capital allocation decisions and, thus, what information should financial statements portray? Regardless of the outcomes of the debates, inevitably there will be change that we, collectively, need to be willing to accept. Change, whatever it is, seems quite difficult for most people to embrace.

## A word about the US

Any discussion of global comparability in financial reporting must at least briefly address the situation in the US. A brief review of history reveals that the US has been an active, supportive player in international accounting standards for a long time. Before 2001, the US was actively involved in the International Accounting Standards Committee, the predecessor to the IASB. The US also played an active role in the Strategy Working Party that laid the groundwork for the establishment of the IASB in 2001. In 2007, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) removed the requirement for non-US registrants to reconcile their non-US GAAP-based net income and equity book value to those based on US GAAP -- provided that the registrant applies IFRS as issued by IASB without modification. In 2008, the SEC issued a ‘Roadmap' for possible adoption of a single set of global standards. In 2010, the SEC confirmed its commitment to a single set of standards and issued the SEC staff ‘Work Plan' to achieve that objective. In addition, from early in the IASB's history, the US Financial Accounting Standards Board and the IASB have worked closely together to converge the two sets of standards.

In 2011, the SEC articulated a possible method of incorporation of IFRS into the US financial reporting system, which was referred to as a ‘condorsement' framework. Condorsement is a newly created word designed to convey a combination of convergence, whereby a country maintains its local standards but over time modifies those standards to be more like IFRS, and endorsement, which involves incorporating individual IFRS into existing local standards. The endorsement process envisioned in the condorsement framework is not fundamentally different from other countries' endorsement processes. In 2012, the SEC Staff issued its Final Report on the Work Plan, which summarizes the observations and analyses of the staff regarding six key areas identified for study in the Work Plan, but does not contain any recommendations by the Staff or decisions by the SEC regarding whether IFRS should be incorporated into the US financial reporting system or how any such incorporation should be implemented.

The world is awaiting the SEC's next move regarding whether and how to incorporate IFRS into the US financial reporting system. It is unclear when the SEC will make any decisions relating to IFRS -- most likely it will not be until 2013 or later. What is clear is that comparability is key to the SEC's decision. Comparability is one of the main motivations for the US considering a move to IFRS.

## Concluding remarks

Comparability in financial reporting is key to promoting efficient allocation of capital. The adoption and consistent implementation of IFRS is a crucial, necessary first step in