What is comparability?

Although the word ‘comparability' has a meaning in the English language, financial accounting standard setters have a precise definition in mind. The Conceptual Framework explains that comparability is the qualitative characteristic of financial reporting information that enables users to identify and understand similarities in, and differences among, items. That is, comparability results in like things looking alike and different things looking different. The Conceptual Framework goes on to explain that comparability makes financial reporting information useful because the information can be compared to similar information about other entities or about the same entity at a different time. Comparability does not relate to a single item; comparability requires at least two items that are being compared.

To avoid misunderstanding, it is important to clarify what comparability is not. Comparability is not consistency. Consistency refers to the use of the same accounting methods or principles by a firm for the same items over time. Comparability is a goal of consistency and, thus, consistency helps achieve comparability. In itself, however, consistency does not ensure comparability. Comparability also is not uniformity. This is a source of confusion for many. Comparability results in like things looking alike and different things looking different. Uniformity requires treating all things in the same way. As a result, uniformity can make unlike things look alike, which impairs, not enhances, comparability. For example, consider an accounting rule specifying that all buildings be depreciated on a straight-line basis using a 30-year useful life and assuming a 10% residual value. Thus, the depreciation method for all buildings would be the same. What if some buildings last 20 years and others last 200 years? What if some buildings have a 5% residual value and others have a 25% residual value? What if some buildings deteriorate more rapidly at first and others deteriorate more rapidly nearer the end of their lives? Unless all buildings have a 30-year useful life, a 10% residual value, and economic benefits that are consumed in a straight-line pattern, using the same depreciation method achieves uniformity, but not comparability. It makes all buildings look alike, when in fact they are different. That is not comparability.

The Conceptual Framework also explains that some degree of comparability can be achieved by faithful representation, which is one of the fundamental qualitative characteristics of financial reporting information. That is, if financial statements faithfully represent an item -- e.g. an asset or a liability -- then comparability should follow. This is because a faithful representation would reflect the characteristics of the item. In the building example, if the residual value of a particular building is 25%, not 10%, then depreciating the building assuming a 10% residual value would not result in a faithful representation of the building.

## Comparability: why?

Why is comparability so crucial to financial reporting? The primary reason -- as with all qualitative characteristics of financial reporting information -- is to help meet the objective of financial reporting. That objective is to provide financial information about the entity that is useful to existing and potential investors, lenders and other creditors in making decisions about providing resources to the entity. The Conceptual Framework explains that decisions to buy, sell, or hold equity and debt instruments require allocation of capital, and financial reporting is aimed at those who cannot demand the information they need to make those capital allocation decisions. Thus, comparability in