China Journal of Accounting Studies

|  Event Date | Reaction to the Adoption of IFRS in Europe – Individual Events  |   |
| --- | --- | --- |
|   |  Description | Predicted sign  |
|  Mar 12, 2002 | European Parliament passes resolution requiring all EU listed companies to use IFRS by 2005 | +  |
|  May 14, 2002 | EFRAG issues draft recommendation to endorse all extant IFRS | +  |
|  June 19, 2002 | EFRAG issues final recommendation to endorse all extant IFRS | +  |
|  July 4, 2003 | Chirac sends letter to Prodi expressing concerns about IAS 39 and its potential negative effect on Europe | -  |
|  July 9, 2003 | Bolkestein sends letter to Tweedie supporting adoption | +  |
|  July 16, 2003 | ECOFIN and ARC support adoption of IFRS | +  |
|  Sept 29, 2003 | EC endorses all extant IFRS, except IAS 32 and IAS 39 | +  |
|  Feb 3, 2004 | Bolkestein pledges to postpone endorsement of IAS 32 and IAS 39 until issues are resolved; sets up consultative group to facilitate resolution | +  |
|  Mar 30, 2004 | HSBC announces intentions to implement IAS 39 in full | +  |
|  June 4, 2004 | EFRAG issues draft recommendation to endorse IAS 32 and IAS 39 | +  |
|  July 8, 2004 | EFRAG issues final recommendation to endorse IAS 32 and IAS 39 | +  |
|  Oct 1, 2004 | ARC recommends endorsement of IAS 39, but recommends provisions relating to the fair value option and portfolio hedging of demand deposits be carved out | -  |
|  Nov 19, 2004 | EC endorses IAS 39 with both carve-out provisions | -  |
|  June 16, 2005 | IASB issues revised IAS 39 with new fair value option | +  |
|  July 8, 2005 | ARC recommends endorsement of revised fair value option, thereby eliminating one of the carve-outs | +  |
|  Nov 15, 2005 | EC endorses revised fair value option, thereby eliminating one of the carve-outs | +  |

Figure 1. Reaction to the adoption of IFRS in Europe.

tion are listed below. For example, the positive predicted sign for March 12, 2002 indicates that the study assesses this event as increasing the likelihood of IFRS adoption in Europe. The negative predicted sign for July 4, 2003 indicates that the study assesses this event as decreasing the likelihood. This event is Jacques Chirac, then President of France, sending a letter to the President of the European Commission stating that adoption of IFRS in Europe, particularly International Accounting Standard 39, the financial instruments standard, would have negative effects on the economy of Europe (see Figure 1).

The study finds an overall positive reaction to these events, and interprets this finding as indicating that investors perceive net benefits to IFRS adoption. The study also finds that the market reaction is incrementally positive for firms with lower pre-adoption information quality and higher information asymmetry, and incrementally negative in code law countries. The study interprets these findings as indicating that investors perceive net benefits from increased financial reporting quality, but they are concerned about enforcement, which prior research finds is less rigorous in code law countries. Importantly, the study finds that there is a positive market reaction even for firms with high pre-adoption information quality, such as firms that use US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) or cross-list in the US. Because this positive market reaction cannot be attributed to increased financial reporting quality, the study interprets this finding as indicating that investors perceive benefits associated with comparability.

A second study in this literature is 'Are international accounting standards-based and US GAAP-based accounting amounts comparable?' (Barth, Landsman, Lang, &amp; Williams, 2012). The questions motivating this study are: (1) is comparability with US GAAP reporting higher after IFRS firms adopt IFRS? and (2) does comparability differ across firms and has it increased over time? The study addresses three research questions. The first is: are accounting system and value relevance comparability with US GAAP-based accounting amounts higher after the IFRS firms adopt IFRS? An affirmative answer to this question indicates that IFRS-based accounting amounts are more comparable to US GAAP-based accounting amounts than amounts based on the IFRS