Barth

cost makes like things look different, thereby failing to achieve comparability. Are the financial statements of Entities A, B, and C comparable if each measures its investment at fair value? The answer is 'yes' because all three entities would measure the asset at 45, which means that the same asset held by different entities looks the same. That achieves comparability. However, this conclusion is only clear because the fair value was specified in this example. To the extent that Entities A, B, and C need to estimate the fair value, they might estimate different amounts. In such a case, whether cost or fair value provides more comparability depends on whether the range of fair value estimates is smaller than 40, i.e., 60 minus 20. That is, it depends on whether fair value results in making the same asset held by the three entities look more alike than cost.

Some might argue that comparability is best achieved by reporting both amounts, for example if each entity measures the investment at cost and discloses the fair value. However, the Conceptual Framework is clear that disclosure is not a substitute for recognition and the limited academic research that exists on recognition versus disclosure tends to support that view.

What about measuring different assets of the entity in different ways? Can this achieve comparability? For example, presently we measure many financial assets at fair value and property, plant, and equipment at modified historical cost. We impair accounts receivable for incurred credit losses; property, plant, and equipment to recoverable amount; and inventory to lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. We measure most long-term debt at amortized cost and derivative liabilities at fair value. There are many measurement methods used in financial reporting and most often the different measures apply to different assets. The question is whether this approach can achieve comparability.

As an example to illustrate this issue, consider the assets of Entity A and Entity B.

|   | A | B  |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  Cash | 500 | 500  |
|  Accounts receivable | 1000 | 1000  |
|  Property, plant, and equipment | 1500 | 1500  |
|  Total assets | 3000 | 3000  |

The reported assets of these two entities – 3000 – make the assets look the same, and it appears that each entity's accounts receivable represents one-third of its assets and property, plant, and equipment represents one-half of its assets. If this reporting achieves comparability, then the two entities should have the same assets and these proportions should reflect the economics of the assets each entity holds.

What if Entity A measures accounts receivable at fair value and property, plant, and equipment at modified historical cost, with all amounts in US dollars? Assume Entity A's property, plant, and equipment was purchased at various times over the last ten years. What if Entity B measures all assets at fair value and cash is stated in US dollars, accounts receivable is stated in euros, and property, plant, and equipment is stated in Swiss francs? Are these two entities comparable? Do the proportions of total assets each reports for the three assets reflect the economics of the assets? The answer is 'no'.

How does a financial statement user compare Entity A's property, plant, and equipment with Entity B's? In addition, what do the 3000 in total assets for Entities A and B represent? Are these amounts comparable to each other? Are they comparable to anything? Each 3000 is the sum of three numbers derived on different bases. Like the sum of apples and oranges, its meaning is unclear. Many might react to this example by say-