firms' prior domestic GAAP. The second is: are there differences for voluntary versus mandatory adopters, for firms from common versus code law and high versus low enforcement countries, and in more recent years? Identifying differences across firms and years in comparability with US GAAP-based accounting amounts provides insights into where and when comparability is greater. The third research question is: are earnings smoothing, accrual quality, and timeliness of earnings potential sources of increases in comparability? Answering this question provides insight into the potential sources of comparability, which enhances our understanding of how greater comparability is being achieved.

The study bases its inferences on a sample of firms from 27 countries that adopt IFRS from 1995 to 2006 and a sample of US firms matched on size and industry. The measures of comparability are based on assessing differences in how accounting amounts based on IFRS or US GAAP relate to economic outcomes. The economic outcomes are stock price and stock return, and the accounting amounts are earnings and equity book value. Accounting system comparability assesses the differences between predicted economic outcomes resulting from applying US GAAP and IFRS pricing multiples to each firm's accounting amounts. Value relevance comparability assesses differences between explanatory powers of accounting amounts for economic outcomes. The study employs metrics for earnings smoothing, accrual quality, and timeliness of earnings that have been studied in prior literature.

The study finds that comparability with US GAAP-based accounting amounts is higher after firms adopt IFRS. It also finds that both accounting system and value relevance comparability are higher for IFRS firms that adopted IFRS mandatorily, for firms from common law legal origin and high enforcement countries, and in more recent years. These findings are consistent with the effects associated with incentives of voluntary adopters reducing comparability, enforcement of standards enhancing comparability, and greater convergence between US GAAP and IFRS and other aspects of the financial reporting system increasing over time, thereby increasing comparability. Although US firms have higher value relevance than IFRS firms, value relevance is comparable to US firms for IFRS firms from common law and high enforcement countries. Finally, earnings smoothing, accrual quality, and earnings timeliness are all potential sources of greater comparability.

## Comparability: when?

This is the big question. In the last ten years or so, we have been witnessing widespread adoption of IFRS and more global consistency in implementation and enforcement of the standards. Most countries are now part of the IFRS family -- the last big holdout is the US -- and efforts are underway to globalize auditing standards and coordinate enforcement by regulators. Thus, there has been progress on comparability that can be achieved by using the same accounting standards. However, more needs to be done. In particular, it is important for all entities to apply all standards that are word for word the same around the world -- not ‘almost the same as', ‘similar to', or ‘based on' IFRS. Until all entities apply exactly the same standards, the necessary first step in achieving comparability will not have been taken.

The next step is to ensure that the requirements in standards achieve comparability. Unfortunately, standard setting is slow and the process results in evolutionary changes to financial reporting. The IASB employs an extensive due process to ensure all voices are heard and debates fully all aspects of every proposed change. Thus, changing