the results for the full sample, while Panel B focuses on the subsample of companies with CSR assurance on their CSR reports. In both panels, Models 1 and 3 use the size-adjusted, scaled measure of CSR decoupling as the dependent variable, while Models 2 and 4 use the gap measure of CSR decoupling.

Models 2 and 4 in both Panel A and B show that the interactions between the lagged effects of LEVEL and SCOPE are significantly and negatively associated with CSR decoupling. These results provide strong support for Hypothesis 1, indicating that companies providing a reasonable level of assurance combined with a broad scope of assurance on their CSR reports exhibit less CSR decoupling than companies lacking one or both of these assurance characteristics. The findings suggest that the combination of reasonable assurance with a broad assurance scope can have synergistic effects in reducing CSR decoupling.

Models 2 and 4 in both Panels also reveal that the interactions between the lagged effects of LEVEL and PROVIDER are significantly and negatively related to CSR decoupling. These results provide strong support for Hypothesis 2, indicating that companies combining a reasonable level of assurance with assurance provided by the auditing profession exhibit lower levels of CSR decoupling.

Finally, Model 4 in Panel A and Models 2 and 4 in Panel B show significant positive interactions between SCOPE and PROVIDER and CSR decoupling, while Model 2 in Panel A shows a positive but non-significant association. These results do not support Hypothesis 3. Specifically, the findings in Panel B suggest that among companies with CSR assurance on their reports, those with limited assurance, a broad assurance scope, and an assurance provider from the auditing profession exhibit higher levels of CSR decoupling.

Together, these results suggest that CSR assurance practices that exceed minimum standards, particularly those involving reasonable assurance, can play a significant role in mitigating CSR decoupling. The findings suggest that CSR assurance can conditionally contribute to mitigating CSR decoupling and enhance the quality of CSR reports. Specifically, the findings indicate that the assurance process enhances the quality of CSR reports when a reasonable level of assurance is combined with a broad scope or assurance providers from the auditing profession.

## Robustness

The results in Table 4 show that using the alternative measures of CSR decoupling does not change our main results, suggesting that the findings are robust across different measures of CSR decoupling. In addition, we investigated whether cross-country variation measures may affect the results. For this reason, we also estimated Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) regressions with country, industry, and year fixed effects and firm-level clustered and heteroscedasticity-adjusted standard errors. Table 5 presents the results of these additional analyses, which qualitatively align with our main analysis in Table 4, indicating that the findings are robust to different measures of country effects.

Moreover, Table 1 shows that the United Kingdom (UK) and the United States (US) are highly represented in our data set with 26% and 22% of observations, respectively, while some other countries in the sample are rather small. To ensure that our results are not influenced by the inclusion (or exclusion) of the UK or the US, or by observations from countries that are very small, as additional robustness tests, we recursively repeated our main analyses after eliminating the UK, the US, one at a time, or the small country samples containing less than 15 firm-year observations from the analysis. Table 6 reports the results of these additional analyses for the main results. The results are consistent with the main results in Table 4, indicating that the results are robust to the inclusion or exclusion of specific countries with the larger or smaller country samples.

Table 7 shows the results when also including the three-way interaction between LEVEL, SCOPE, and PROVIDER. The findings of this additional analysis show that the results are mostly robust to the inclusion or exclusion of the three-way interaction. Finally, even though we use time-fixed effects in our settings, we test whether the Covid pandemic drives our main results by dropping the Covid years 2020 and 2021 from our sample. The untabulated results show that our main findings stay qualitatively the same after dropping the Covid years. Overall, as none of the robustness tests change our general results, we are confident that our results are qualitatively robust.

## Conclusions and Discussion

This study examined the relationship between CSR assurance and CSR decoupling. Specifically, we explored how the combinations of the level and scope of assurance and the type of assurance provider are associated with a reduction in CSR decoupling. Our findings indicate that CSR assurance can mitigate CSR decoupling when reasonable assurance is combined with a broad scope or when reasonable assurance is provided by an assurance provider from the auditing profession. They highlight the importance of comprehensive assurance practices in effectively addressing the gap between CSR disclosure and performance, and in substantively enhancing the quality of CSR reports. However, for companies that meet only the minimum assurance standards, our results suggest that CSR assurance primarily serves a symbolic role, enhancing perceived legitimacy while having little effect on reduction, or even potentially increasing CSR decoupling. Legitimacy theory explains these latter findings by suggesting that managers of companies use CSR assurance as a self-serving tool for risk and impression management to proactively shape stakeholders' perceptions of the credibility of the CSR information disclosed, enhance perceived company legitimacy, and build stakeholder trust (Talbot and Boiral 2018; Braam and Peeters 2018; O'Dwyer et al. 2011).

Our results have important implications for policymakers, investors, and other stakeholders. From a policy perspective, they suggest that policymakers should strengthen mandatory CSR assurance requirements to enhance the quality of corporate sustainability reporting. Under the CSRD, companies are currently mandated to obtain limited assurance (European Commission 2025). However, our findings indicate that limited assurance—regardless of its scope or whether it is provided by