the quality of CSR reporting (Ballou et al. 2018; Moroney et al. 2012; Sethi et al. 2017), and fosters greater transparency (Christensen 2016; Christensen et al. 2021). Consistently, Sauerwald and Su (2019) find that CSR assurance reduces CSR decoupling, while García-Sánchez et al. (2022) report a negative but non-significant relationship between CSR assurance and CSR decoupling. Furthermore, improved reporting processes and disclosure of higher quality CSR information may strengthen companies' commitment to sustainability and drive sustainable value creation, which may positively influence corporate reputation (Simnett et al. 2009; Pflugrath et al. 2011; Reimsbach et al. 2017; Odriozola and Baraibar-Diez 2017) and companies' competitive position (Lozano and Huisingh 2011; Marin et al. 2012; Lozano 2015).

However, managers of companies have flexibility in choices related to CSR assurance. Managerial capture, which refers to management's control over CSR reporting and assurance processes (O'Dwyer 2003; O'Dwyer and Owen 2005; Michelon et al. 2015), allows managers to strategically exercise control and discretion in making choices related to the level and scope of assurance, as well as the choice for an assurance provider. In this study, we posit that companies with low levels of CSR decoupling are expected to make different choices related to the level and scope of CSR assurance and the assurance provider to distinguish themselves from companies with high levels of CSR decoupling. Reasonable (positive) assurance offers a higher level of assurance and requires an assurance provider to obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence to conclude that the disclosed CSR information is free from material misstatements. It more likely enhances the credibility and reliability of CSR disclosures for stakeholders than limited (negative) assurance. In terms of scope, assuring the entire CSR report signals a stronger commitment to transparency and accountability in CSR practices than a limited scope. While a restricted scope may draw attention to specific sections, it can also raise concerns about the company's overall transparency and integrity in its CSR efforts.

Combinations of reasonable assurance and broad scope provide higher overall assurance levels and are expected to be more effective in reducing CSR decoupling. They involve greater scrutiny than limited assurance or assurance restricted to specific sections (Moroney et al. 2012), decrease the likelihood that management will selectively highlight favorable CSR performance while omitting less favorable aspects (Cho et al. 2012), and are more likely to signal that the CSR information is fairly presented, in all material respects. However, they are also costly signals. According to signaling theory, companies will trade off the relative costs and benefits of different assurance combinations and employ combinations only if the expected benefits outweigh the costs (Connelly et al. 2011; Hahn and Reimsbach 2021). The marginal expected benefits of credibly signaling lower levels of CSR decoupling through ‘high-quality' assurance choices are more likely to outweigh the associated incremental costs for companies with low levels of CSR decoupling than for those with high CSR decoupling. Particularly for large firms that attract much public attention and scrutiny, the expected benefits of enhanced stakeholder confidence in the credibility of the CSR information disclosed may likely outweigh the higher costs, including the increased CSR assurance expenses (Braam and Peeters 2018; Fonseca 2010). In addition, these ‘high-quality' assurance choices are challenging for companies with high levels of CSR decoupling to imitate (Clarkson et al. 2008; Pflugrath et al. 2011; e.g. Connelly et al. 2011).

Legitimacy theory, however, suggests that companies exhibiting high levels of CSR decoupling may also benefit from CSR assurance, especially when faced with public pressure and legitimacy threats. Specifically, these companies are more likely to choose “low-quality” assurance choices, that is, limited assurance and a narrow scope, resulting in less scrutiny and greater flexibility to decouple reported CSR performance from actual practices. Through these strategic assurance choices, managers can signal the credibility and reliability of their CSR disclosures while simultaneously masking high levels of CSR decoupling. As a result, for companies with high levels of CSR decoupling, CSR assurance can actively help manage stakeholders' confidence in the company's commitment to sustainable development (Schons and Steinmeier 2016). Strategic CSR assurance choices can help to divert attention from unfavorable CSR performance, while at the same time enhancing perceived legitimacy and corporate reputation (Hahn and Lülfs 2014; Michelon et al. 2015; Roszkowska-Menkes et al. 2024).

We expect that companies with low levels of CSR decoupling are more likely to select combinations of reasonable assurance and a broader scope to differentiate themselves from companies with high levels of CSR decoupling. Combinations of “high-quality” assurance choices are costly signals but provide strategic benefits for companies with low levels of CSR decoupling because they are difficult for companies with high levels of CSR decoupling to imitate. In particular, for large firms that attract much public attention and scrutiny, the marginal expected benefits of credibly signaling lower levels of CSR decoupling are likely to outweigh the associated marginal costs of using these combinations. In contrast, companies with high levels of CSR decoupling may strategically use combinations of the “low-quality assurance choices”, that is, limited assurance with a narrow scope, to signal credibility while simultaneously obscuring the extent of their CSR decoupling. Accordingly, we state the following hypotheses:

### Hypothesis 1.

Companies that combine a reasonable level of assurance with a broad scope of assurance on their CSR reports exhibit less CSR decoupling than companies lacking either or both of these assurance choices.

Following prior literature, we distinguish between assurance providers from the auditing profession and other independent providers, such as sustainability or environmental consulting firms (Velte 2021; Martínez-Ferrero and García-Sánchez 2018; Sethi et al. 2017). The auditing profession has experience and developed auditing standards, a body of ethics, independence and ethical requirements, that is, generally accepted auditing standards (GAAS), and quality control mechanisms to provide high-quality independent assurance. Unlike other independent service providers, who are not required to comply with GAAP, having to follow GAAPs ensures a higher and more consistent quality of assurance for CSR reports, which enhances stakeholder trust. Auditing firms also have a reputation on which they rely on for the continuation of their business. For these reasons, some literature argues that assurance provided by auditing firms, on average, is of a higher quality than that provided by