Further Evidence." Journal of Accounting and Public Policy 34, no. 4: 336–361.

Reimsbach, D., R. Hahn, and A. Gürtürk. 2017. "Integrated Reporting and Assurance of Sustainability Information: An Experimental Study on Professional Investors' Information Processing." European Accounting Review 27, no. 3: 559–581.

Roszkowska-Menkes, M., M. Aluchna, and B. Kamiński. 2024. "True Transparency or Mere Decoupling? The Study of Selective Disclosure in Sustainability Reporting." Critical Perspectives on Accounting 98: 102700.

Ruiz-Blanco, S., S. Romero, and B. Fernandez-Feijoo. 2022. "Green, Blue or Black, but Washing-What Company Characteristics Determine Greenwashing?" Environment, Development and Sustainability 24, no. 3: 4024–4045.

Sauerwald, S., and W. Su. 2019. "CEO Overconfidence and CSR Decoupling." Corporate Governance: An International Review 27, no. 4: 283–300.

Schons, L., and M. Steinmeier. 2016. "Walk the Talk? How Symbolic and Substantive CSR Actions Affect Firm Performance Depending on Stakeholder Proximity." Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management 23, no. 6: 358–372.

Sethi, S. P., T. F. Martell, and M. Demir. 2017. "Enhancing the Role and Effectiveness of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Reports: The Missing Element of Content Verification and Integrity Assurance." Journal of Business Ethics 144, no. 1: 59–82.

Simnett, R., A. Vanstraelen, and W. F. Chua. 2009. "Assurance on Sustainability Reports: An International Comparison." Accounting Review 84, no. 3: 937–967.

Talbot, D., and O. Boiral. 2018. "GHG Reporting and Impression Management: An Assessment of Sustainability Reports From the Energy Sector." Journal of Business Ethics 147: 367–383.

Tashman, P., V. Marano, and T. Kostova. 2019. "Walking the Walk or Talking the Talk? Corporate Social Responsibility Decoupling in Emerging Market Multinationals." Journal of International Business Studies 50, no. 2: 153–171.

Unerman, J. 2008. "Strategic Reputation Risk Management and Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting." Accounting, Auditing &amp; Accountability Journal 21, no. 3: 362–364.

Velte, P. 2021. "Determinants and Consequences of Corporate Social Responsibility Assurance: A Systematic Review of Archival Research." Society and Business Review 16, no. 1: 1–25.

Zorio, A., M. A. García-Benau, and L. Sierra. 2013. "Sustainability Development and the Quality of Assurance Reports: Empirical Evidence." Business Strategy and the Environment 22, no. 7: 484–500.

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 2025
8081