TABLE 1 | (Continued)

|  Panel B. Distribution of CSR assurance across industries  |   |   |   |   |   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  Industryb | Full sample |   | Subsample of companies with CSR assurance |   | (%)  |
|   |  n | (%) | n | (%)  |   |
|  Finance | 298 | 6.9% | 155 | 8.0% |   |
|  Construction, mining and agriculture | 517 | 12.0% | 258 | 13.3% |   |
|  Total | 4299 | 100.00% | 1947 | 100.00% |   |

Panel C. Distribution of CSR assurance choices across years for the subsample of firms with CSR assurance

|  Year | CSR assurance |   | LEVELc |   | SCOPEd |   | PROVIDERE  |   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|   |  n | (%) | n | (%) | n | (%) | n | (%)  |
|  2010 | 67 | 3.4% | 11 |  | 13 |  | 47 |   |
|  2011 | 106 | 5.4% | 15 |  | 30 |  | 78 |   |
|  2012 | 113 | 5.8% | 15 |  | 31 |  | 83 |   |
|  2013 | 102 | 5.2% | 16 |  | 33 |  | 92 |   |
|  2014 | 125 | 6.4% | 15 |  | 35 |  | 88 |   |
|  2015 | 111 | 5.7% | 16 |  | 33 |  | 81 |   |
|  2016 | 126 | 6.5% | 18 |  | 36 |  | 90 |   |
|  2017 | 141 | 7.2% | 18 |  | 34 |  | 101 |   |
|  2018 | 157 | 8.1% | 18 |  | 42 |  | 112 |   |
|  2019 | 185 | 9.5% | 18 |  | 52 |  | 129 |   |
|  2020 | 219 | 11.2% | 19 |  | 58 |  | 137 |   |
|  2021 | 241 | 12.4% | 21 |  | 63 |  | 148 |   |
|  2022 | 254 | 13.0% | 26 |  | 55 |  | 151 |   |
|  Total | 1947 | 100.0% | 226 | 11.6% | 515 | 26.5% | 1337 | 68.7%  |

Note: Table 2 shows the definitions of the variables.
aThe United Kingdom, United States, and Canada and Ireland are classified as shareholder-oriented countries.
bOur sample is composed of 4299 firm-year observations in 834 unique firms in 62 industries based on the two-digit Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes, which we reclassified into six main industry groups for presentation purposes.
cFirms that have reasonable assurance on their CSR reports per year and in total, and as a percentage of all firms with assured CSR reports.
$^{\mathrm{d}}$ Firms that have a broad scope of assurance, that is, assurance on the entire CSR report, per year and in total, and as a percentage of all firms with assured CSR reports.
eFirms that have an assurance provider from the auditing profession per year and in total, and as a percentage of all firms with assured CSR reports.

# 3.2.2 | CSR Assurance Choices

Consistent with Braam and Peeters (2018), we used three dummy variables: LEVEL takes the value of 1 if reasonable (positive) assurance was provided for the CSR report, and 0 in the case of limited (negative) assurance. SCOPE is equal to 1 if the scope of the CSR assurance provided covers the entire sustainability report, and 0 otherwise. PROVIDER takes the value of 1 if the assurance provider is a member of the auditing profession, and 0 if the assurance is not provided by a member of the auditing profession (Simnett et al. 2009; Sethi et al. 2017; Martinez-Ferrero et al. 2018).

# 3.2.3 | Control Variables

At the firm level, consistent with prior studies, we included size (SIZE) measured as the natural logarithm of total assets,

leverage (LEVERAGE) defined as the ratio of long-term debt to total assets, return on assets (ROA) measured as the return-on-assets ratio (Ruiz-Blanco et al. 2022; Garcia-Sanchez et al. 2022; Sauerwald and Su 2019), and other firm-specific characteristics (Tashman et al. 2019; Marquis et al. 2016). For non-financial performance, we used the ESG score (ESG) provided by the ESG database from LSEG Workspace Datastream, which reflects a company's combined performance across the environmental, social, and governance (ESG) pillars. Research &amp; Development (R&amp;D), defined as the expenses in research and development divided by the total sales (Tashman et al. 2019), was added as a proxy for a firm's innovation ability. To overcome the common issue of missing data on firms' R&amp;D expenses, we followed Tashman et al. (2019) by using industry averages as a proxy for missing data. Capital intensity (CAPITAL INTENSITY), measured as the ratio of net property, plant, and equipment to total assets (Marquis et al. 2016;

Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Management, 2025