specialist consultants (Hodge et al. 2009; Pflugrath et al. 2011; Zorio et al. 2013).

Moreover, studies indicate that assurance providers from the auditing profession tend to charge higher fees than non-auditing providers (e.g. Simnett et al. 2009). This is consistent with the literature suggesting that fees may serve as a proxy for the level of audit effort (Hoitash et al. 2007). In this context, assurance providers from the auditing profession, on average, are likely to signal a higher level of audit effort on CSR reports than their non-audit counterparts (Dalla Via and Perego 2020). As a result, they are expected to be more effective in reducing CSR decoupling, enhancing credibility, and shaping stakeholders' perceptions of the reliability of the information disclosed in CSR reports. A counterargument, however, is that non-auditing assurance providers, such as environmental or sustainability consultancies, may possess more specialized expertise (Velte 2021; Martinez-Ferrero et al. 2018) and may adopt a different focus compared to traditional auditors (O'Dwyer and Owen 2005). Assurance providers within the auditing profession, however, can acquire this specialized knowledge (Simnett et al. 2009; Casey and Grenier 2015).

When considering CSR assurance combinations that include the choice of an assurance provider, the arguments become less straightforward. For both companies with high and low levels of CSR decoupling, selecting an assurance provider from the auditing profession may offer benefits. For companies with low levels of CSR decoupling, an assurance provider from the auditing profession can strengthen the effects of a CSR assurance approach that provides a reasonable level of assurance and/or a broad scope, thereby enhancing the credibility of their CSR disclosures. Conversely, for companies with high levels of CSR decoupling, an assurance provider from the auditing profession can also strengthen the effectiveness of “low-quality” assurance options, building legitimacy and facilitating stakeholder trust.

Taken together, given that assurance providers from the auditing profession have well-established, high-quality assurance processes and rely on their reputation—to a higher extent than non-auditing assurors—we state the following hypothesis:

### Hypothesis 2.

Companies with a reasonable level of assurance on their CSR reports provided by an assurance provider from the auditing profession exhibit less CSR decoupling compared to companies lacking either or both of these assurance choices.

### Hypothesis 3.

Companies with a broad scope of assurance on their CSR reports provided by an assurance provider from the auditing profession exhibit less CSR decoupling compared to companies lacking either or both of these assurance choices.

## Research Method

### Sample

To test our hypotheses, we first extracted data on nonfinancial information from the Sustainability Disclosure Database, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and LSEG Workspace. When non-financial information was not available in these databases, CSR reports were retrieved directly from the companies' websites to gather the missing data. We then merged this data with financial data provided by LSEG Workspace Datastream. Our final dataset contains 4299 firm-year observations in 843 unique publicly listed firms across 29 different countries in the period 2010--2022.

Table 1 presents the descriptive statistics for these firms. Panel A reports the distribution of the sample firms across countries and industries. Almost half of the firms are from the United Kingdom and United States, which are both shareholder-oriented countries; data coverage is, in general, large. However, we also cover smaller countries, containing two to eight firms. Panel B presents the distribution of CSR assurance choices across industries and shows the distribution of CSR assurance choices across sectors, with the manufacturing sector accounting for 43% of observations. Panel C shows the distribution of CSR assurance choices by year for the subsample of firms with CSR assurance.

### Variables

### CSR Decoupling

To measure our dependent variable CSR decoupling (CSR DECOUPLING), we follow the approach of Hawn and Ioannou (2016), who—using raw data points from the Thomson Reuters ASSET4 database (currently part of the ESG database in LSEG Workspace)—differentiated between external and internal CSR actions. Actions were classified as external CSR actions if they “[...] appeared to be more externally oriented in terms of disclosure (e.g. reporting) and claims [...],” while internal actions were those “[...] that were more internally oriented in terms of policies [...]” (Hawn and Ioannou 2016, 2577). Following Hawn and Ioannou (2016), we first measured external and internal actions per firm per year as the equally-weighted average of the normalized performance scores of internal actions and external actions, respectively. However, in our study, we make use of the LSEG database, where not all data points used to construct the original 24 external and 21 internal actions remain available. Where necessary, we substituted missing data with adapted measures or the most appropriate available proxies. Additionally, we omitted two external actions to avoid potential duplication with variables already included in our model as independent and control variables. The indices were then normalized, resulting in annual firm-level measures ranging from 0 to 1. Following Hawn and Ioannou (2016), CSR decoupling was calculated as the difference between the external normalized score in year t and the internal normalized score in year t - 1, where higher values indicate more CSR decoupling. Because larger companies are expected to have higher levels of internal and external CSR actions, we also applied a scaled measure for CSR decoupling. Consistent with Hawn and Ioannou (2016), this size-adjusted, relative measure of CSR decoupling was calculated as the ratio of CSR decoupling to the natural logarithm of total assets. This approach aligns with prior studies that also applied a scaled measures of CSR performance and disclosure (AlTuwaijri et al. 2004; Cho and Patten 2007; Clarkson et al. 2008; Braam et al. 2016).